title
CLEVR_HYP: A Challenge Dataset and Baselines for Visual Question Answering with Hypothetical Actions over Images

abstract
Most existing research on visual question answering (VQA) is limited to information explicitly present in an image or a video. In this paper, we take visual understanding to a higher level where systems are challenged to answer questions that involve mentally simulating the hypothetical consequences of performing specific actions in a given scenario. Towards that end, we formulate a vision-language question answering task based on the CLEVR (Johnson et al., 2017a) dataset. Wethen modify the best existing VQA methods and propose baseline solvers for this task. Finally, we motivate the development of better vision-language models by providing insights about the capability of diverse architectures to perform joint reasoning over image-text modality 1 . * corresponding author 1 Dataset setup scripts and code for baselines are made available at https://github.com/shailaja183/clevr_hyp. For additional details about the dataset creation process, refer supplementary material.

Introduction In 2014, Michael Jordan, in an interview  (Gomes, 2014)  said that "Deep learning is good at certain problems like image classification and identifying objects in the scene, but it struggles to talk about how those objects relate to each other, or how a person/robot would interact with those objects. For example, humans can deal with inferences about the scene: what if I sit down on that?, what if I put something on top of something? etc. There exists a range of problems that are far beyond the capability of today's machines." While this interview was six years ago, and since then there has been a lot of progress in deep learning and its applications to visual understanding. Additionally, a large body of visual question answering (VQA) datasets  (Antol et al., 2015; Ren et al., 2015; Hudson and Manning, 2019)  have been compiled and many models have been developed over them, but the above mentioned "inferences about the scene" issue stated by Jordan remains largely unaddressed. In most existing VQA datasets, scene understanding is holistic and questions are centered around information explicitly present in the image (i.e. objects, attributes and actions). As a result, advanced object detection and scene graph techniques have been quite successful in achieving good performance over these datasets. However, provided an image, humans can speculate a wide range of implicit information. For example, the purpose of various objects in a scene, speculation about events that might have happened before, consider numerous imaginary situations and predicting possible future outcomes, intentions of a subject to perform particular actions, and many more. Among the above, an ability to imagine taking specific actions and simulating probable results without actually acting or experiencing is an important aspect of human cognition (Figure  1  gives an example of this). Thus, we believe that having autonomous systems equipped with a similar capability will further advance AI research. This is particu-larly useful for robots performing on-demand tasks in safety-critical situations or navigating through dynamic environments, where they imagine possible outcomes for various situations without executing instructions directly. Motivated by the above, we propose a challenge that attempts to bridge the gap between state-ofthe-art AI and human-level cognition. The main contributions of this paper 2 are as follows; ? We formalize a novel question answering task with respect to a hypothetical state of the world (in a visual form) when some action (described in a textual form) is performed. ? We create a large-scale dataset for this task, and refer it as CLEVR_HYP i.e. VQA with hypothetical actions performed over images in CLEVR  (Johnson et al., 2017a)  style. ? We first evaluate the direct extensions of top VQA and NLQA (Natural language QA) solvers on this dataset. Then, we propose new baselines to solve CLEVR_HYP and report their results. ? Through analysis and ablations, we provide insights about the capability of diverse architectures to perform joint reasoning over imagetext modality. 

 Related Work In this section we situate and compare our work with related areas such as implicit text generation/retrieval for a visual, visual question answering (VQA) over synthetic images, question answering (QA) involving hypothetical reasoning, and language-based manipulation in visual domains closest to CLEVR_HYP. Implicit Text Generation for a Visual: VisualComet  (Park et al., 2020)  and Video2Commonsense  (Fang et al., 2020)  have made initial attempts to derive implicit information about images/videos contrary to traditional factual descriptions which leverage only visual attributes. VisualComet aims to generate commonsense inferences about events that could have happened before, events that can happen after and people's intents at present for each subject in a given image. They use a vision-language transformer that takes a sequence of inputs (image, event, place, inference) and train a model to predict inference in a language-model style. Video2Commonsense focuses on generating video descriptions that can incorporate commonsense facts related to intentions, effects, and implicit attributes about actions being performed by a subject. They extract top-ranked commonsense texts from the Atomic dataset and modify training objective to incorporate this information. While both involve a visual-textual component and actions, their key focus is about generating plausible events and commonsense respectively. Whereas, our work is related to performing certain actions and reasoning about its effect on the overall visual scene. Language-based Manipulation in Visual Domain: Learning a mapping from natural language instructions to a sequences of actions to be performed in a visual environment is a common task in robotics  (Kanu et al., 2020; Gaddy and Klein, 2019; Shridhar et al., 2020) . Another relevant task is vision-and-language navigation  (Anderson et al., 2018; Nguyen et al., 2019) , where an agent navigates in a visual environment to find goal location by following natural language instructions. Both above works include visuals, natural language instructions and a set of actions that can be performed to achieve desired goals. In this way, it is similar to our CLEVR_HYP, but in our case, models require reasoning about the effect of actions performed rather than determining which action to perform. Also, we frame this in a QA style evaluation rather than producing instructions for low-level controls. Manipulation of natural images with language is an emerging research direction in computer vision.  (Teney et al., 2020)  proposed a method for generating counterfactual of VQA samples using image in-painting and masking. Also, there are works  (Dong et al., 2017; Nam et al., 2018; Reed et al., 2016)  which use Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)  (Goodfellow et al., 2014)  for language conditioned image generation and manipulation. However, both the above tasks are more focused at object and attribute level manipulation rather than at action level. VQA over Synthetic Images: While natural images-based VQA datasets reflect challenges one can encounter in real-life situations, the require-1. TA: Paint the small green ball with cyan color. QH : Are there equal yellow cubes on left of purple object and cyan spheres? (A: yes) 2. TA: Add a brown rubber cube behind the blue sphere that inherits its size from the green object. QH : How many things are either brown or small? (A: 6) 3. TA: John moves the small red cylinder on the large cube that is to the right of purple cylinder. QH : What color is the object that is at the bottom of the small red cylinder? (A: yellow) ment of costlier human annotations and vulnerability to biases are two major drawbacks. Contrary to them, synthetic datasets allow controlled data generation at scale while being flexible to test specific reasoning skills. For the above reasons, following benchmark VQA datasets have incorporated synthetic images; COG  (Yang et al., 2018)  and Shapes  (Andreas et al., 2016)  contain images with rendered 2D shapes; SHRDLU  (Winograd, 1971) , CLEVR  (Johnson et al., 2017a) , and CLEVR-dialog  (Kottur et al., 2019)  have rendered scenes with 3D objects; DVQA  (Kafle et al., 2018)  and FigureQA  (Kahou et al., 2017)  have synthetically generated charts (bar chart, pie chart, dot-line etc.); VQAabstract  (Antol et al., 2015)  and IQA  (Gordon et al., 2018)  involves question-answering over synthetically rendered clipart-style scenes and interactive environments respectively. Our proposed dataset CLEVR_HYP uses CLEVR  (Johnson et al., 2017a)  style rendered scenes with 3D objects as a visual component. It is distinct from all other synthetic VQA datasets for two key reasons; first, integration of action domain in synthetic VQA and second, the requirement of mental simulation in order to answer the question. QA involving Hypothetical Reasoning: In the language domain, WIQA  (Tandon et al., 2019)  dataset tests the model's ability to do what-if reasoning over procedural text as a 3-way classification (the influence between pair of events as positive, negative or no-effect). In vision-language domains, a portion of TQA  (Kembhavi et al., 2017)  and VCR  (Zellers et al., 2019)  are relevant. Questions in TQA and VCR involve hypothetical scenarios about multi-modal science contexts and movie scenes respectively. However, none of the above two datasets' key focus is on the model's capability to imagine changes performed over the image. As shown in Figure  3 , the setting of TIWIQ (a benchmark dataset for "physical intelligence")  (Wagner et al., 2018)  has some similarity with ours. It has synthetically rendered table-top scenes, four types of actions (push, rotate, remove and drop) being performed on an object and what-if questions. To our best knowledge, TIWIQ dataset is not publicly available. Based on our understanding from their manuscript, we observe following important distinction with this work. Our questions focus on the impact of actions on the whole image, while in TIWIQ questions are about impact of actions on a specific object in the image. Moreover, we frame CLEVR_HYP as a classification task, contrary to TIWIQ which is a generative task. Our CLEVR_HYP dataset has 175k automatically generated image-action text-question samples which is much larger compared to TIWIQ which has only 1020 samples and manually crafted ground-truths. 

 CLEVR_HYP Task and Dataset Figure  2  gives a glimpse of CLEVR_HYP task. We opt for synthetic dataset creation as it allows automated and controlled data generation at scale with minimal biases. More details are described below. 3 Inputs: Image(I), Action Text (T A ) and Hypothetical Question (Q H ) 1. Image(I): It is a given visual for our task. Each image in the dataset contains 4-10 randomly selected 3D objects rendered using Blender (Blender Online Community, 2019) in CLEVR  (Johnson et al., 2017a)  style. Objects have 4 attributes listed in the Table  1 . Additionally, these objects can be referred using 5 relative spatial relations (left, right, in front, behind and on). We provide scene graphs 3 containing all ground-truth information about a scene, that can be considered as a visual oracle for a given image. 

 Attr. Possible  

 Action Text (T A ): It is a natural language text describing various actions performed over the current scene. The action can be one of four: (i) Add new object(s) to the scene (ii) Remove object(s) from the scene (iii) Change attributes of the object(s) (iv) Move object(s) within scene (might be in plane i.e. left/right/front/back or out of plane i.e. move one object on top of another object 4 ) To generate action text, we start with manually written templates involving the aforementioned actions. For example, action involving change in the attribute of object(s) to a given value, we have a template of the following kind; 'Change the <A> of <Z><C><M><S> to <V>'. Where <A>, <Z>, <C>,<M>,<S>,<V> are placeholders for the attribute, size, color, material, shape and a value of attribute respectively. Each action text in the CLEVR_HYP is associated with a functional program which if executed on an image's scene graph, yields the new scene graph that simulates the effects of actions. Functional programs for action texts 3 are built from the basic functions that correspond to elementary action operations (right part of Figure  4a ). For the above mentioned 'change' attribute action template, the equivalent functional program can be written as; _color(<C>, filter_material(<M>filter_ shape(<S>, scene())))),<V>)'. It essentially means, first filter out the objects with desired attributes and then update the value of their current attribute A to value V. 

 Question about Hypothetical Situation (Q H ): It is a natural language query that tests various visual reasoning abilities after simulating the effects of actions described in T A . There are 5 possible reasoning types similar to CLEVR; (i) Counting objects fulfilling the condition (ii) Verify existence of certain objects (iii) Query attribute of a particular object (iv) Compare attributes of two objects (v) Integer comparison of two object sets (same, larger or smaller) Similar to action texts, we have templates and corresponding programs for questions. Functional programs for questions 3 are executed on the image's updated scene graph (after incorporating effects of the action text) and yields the groundtruth answer to the question. Functional programs for questions are made of primitive functions shown in left part of the Figure  4a ). 

 Paraphrasing: In order to create a challenging dataset from linguistic point of view and to prevent models from overfitting on templated representations, we leverage noun synonyms, object name paraphrasing and sentence-level paraphrasing. For noun synonyms, we use a pre-defined dictionary (such as cube block, sphere ball and so on). We programmatically generate all possibilities to refer to an object in the image (i.e. object name paraphrasing) and randomly sample one among them. For sentence level paraphrasing, we use Text-To-Text Transfer Transformer (T5)  (Raffel et al., 2020)  fine-tuned over positive samples from Quora Question Pairs (QQP) dataset  (Iyer et al., 2017)  for question paraphrasing. We use Fairseq  for action text paraphrasing which uses round-trip translation and mixture of experts  (Shen et al., 2019) . Note that we keep the action text and question as separate inputs for the purpose of simplicity and keeping our focus on building solvers that can do mental simulation. One can create a simple template like "<Q H > if <proper-noun/pronoun> <T A >?" or "If <proper-noun/pronoun> <T A >, Output: Answer (A) to the Question (Q H ), which can be considered as a 27-way classification over attributes (8 colors + 3 shapes + 2 sizes + 2 material), numeric (0-9) and boolean (yes/no). 

 Dataset Partitions and Statistics: We create CLEVR_HYP dataset containing 175k imageaction text-question samples using the process men-tioned in Figure  4b . For each image, we generate 5 kinds of action texts (one for each add, remove, move in-plane and move out-of-plane and change attribute). For each action text type, we generate 5 questions (one for each count, exist, compare integer, query attribute and compare attribute). Hence, we get 5*5 unique action text-question pairs for each image, covering all actions and reasoning types in a balanced manner as shown in Figure  5a  (referred as Original partition). However, it leads to a skewed distribution of answers as observed from 5b. Therefore, we curate a version of the dataset (referred as Balanced partition) consisting of 67.5k samples where all answer choices are equally-likely as well. Additionally, we create two small challenge test sets (1500 image-action text-question samples each)-2HopActionText (2HopT A ) and 2HopQuestion (2HopQ H ) to test generalization capability of the trained models. In 2HopT A , we create action text which requires model to understand two different actions being taken on the scene. For example, 'Add a small blue metal cylinder to the right of large yellow cube and remove the large cylinder from the scene.' and 'Move the purple object on top of small red cube then change its color to cyan.'. In  2HopQ H , we create questions which require model to understand logical combinations of questions using 'and', 'or' and 'not'. For example, 'How many objects are either red or cylinder?' and 'Are there any rubber cubes that are not green?'. In Table  2 , we provide size of the various partitions and measure the diversity of the dataset in various aspects. For images, we calculate average number of objects present in the scene from the length of scene graph. For balanced partition, the number of images are much less compared to original, but more average number of objects per image. This is most likely due to the need to accommodate integers 4-9 more frequently as ground-truth answers. For textual components, we show average lengths (number of tokens separated by whitespaces) and count unique utterances as a measure of diversity. The original partition of the resulting dataset has 80% and 83% unique action text and questions respectively. For balanced partition, length and unique utterances for action text are nearly same as the original partition but for questions, it decreases. Questions in the original partition have been observed to enforce more strict and specific object references (such as small red metal cubes) compared to balanced partition (small cubes, red metal objects etc.), reducing the average length and uniqueness. It is intuitive for 2Hop partitions to have higher average length and uniqueness for T A and Q H respectively. This shows that despite having created this dataset from templates and rendered images with a limited set of attributes, it is still fairly challenging. 4 Models that we experiment with Models trying to tackle CLEVR_HYP dataset have to address four key challenges; (i) understand hypothetical actions and questions in complex natural language, (ii) correctly disambiguate the objects of interest and obtain the structured representation (i.e. scene graphs or functional programs) of various modalities if required by the solver, (iii) understand the dynamics of the world based on the various actions performed over it, (iv) perform various kind of reasoning to answer the question. 

 Random The QA task in CLEVR_HYP dataset can be considered as a 27-class classification problem. Each answer choice is likely to be picked with a probability of 1/27. Therefore, the performance of the random baseline is 3.7%.  Split #I Avg. #Obj #T A Unique #T A Avg. T A Len. #Q H Unique #Q H Avg. Q H Len. 

 Human Performance We performed human evaluation with respect to 500 samples from the CLEVR_HYP dataset. Accuracy of human evaluations on original test, 2HopA T and 2HopQ H are 98.4%, 96.2% and 96.6% respectively. 

 Transformer Architectures Pre-trained transformer-based architectures have been observed  to capture a rich hierarchy of language-structures (text-only models) and effectively map entities/words with corresponding image regions (vision-language models). We experiment with various transformer-based models to understand their capability to understand the effects of actions on a visual domain. Baseline 1-Machine Comprehension using RoBERTa: To evaluate the hypothetical VQA task through the text-only model, we convert images into the templated text using scene graphs. The templated text contains two kind of sentences; one describing properties of the objects i.e. "There is a <Z> <C> <M> <S>", the other one describing the relative spatial location i.e. "The <Z> <C> <M> <S> is <R> the <Z1> <C1> <M1> <S1>". For example, "There is a small green metal cube." and "The large yellow rubber sphere is to the left of the small green metal cube". Then we concatenate templated text with the action text to create a reading comprehension passage. We use state-of-the-art machine comprehension baseline RoBERTa  (Liu et al., 2019)  finetuned on the RACE dataset  (Lai et al., 2017)  5 . Finally, we pre-5 architecture=roberta large, epochs=5, learning rate=1e?05, batch size=2, update frequency=2, dropout=0.1, dict an answer to the question using this reading comprehension passage. Baseline 2-Visual Question Answering using LXMERT Proposed by  (Tan and Bansal, 2019) , LXMERT is one of the best transformer based pretrainable visual-linguistic representations which supports VQA as a downstream task. Typical VQA systems take an image and a language input. Therefore, to evaluate CLEVR_HYP in VQA style, we concatenate action text and question to form a single text input. Since LXMERT is pre-trained on the natural images, we finetune it over CLEVR_HYP dataset 6 and then use it to predict answer. 

 Systematically incorporating effects of actions into neural models Baseline 3-Text-editing Image Baseline: In this method, we break-down the QA task with mental simulation in two parts; first, learn to generate an updated image (such that it has incorporated the effects of actions) and then perform visual question answering with respect to the updated image. We use the idea from Text Image Residual Gating proposed in  (Vo et al., 2019)  to implement the first part. However there are two important distinctions; Their focus is on the retrieval from the given database. We modify their objective and develop text-adaptive encoder-decoder with residual connections to generate new image. Also, editing instructions in their CSS dataset  (Vo et al., 2019)  were quite simple. For example, 'add red cube' and 'remove yellow sphere'. In this case, one can add the red cube anywhere in the scene. We modify their architecture to precisely place objects to their optimizer=adam with eps=1e?06. 

 3699 Nomenclature I: Image, SG: Scene Graph, TT: Templated Text, T A : Action Text, Q H : Hypothetical Question, A: Answer, FP: Functional Program, ': Updated Modality Baseline 1: relative spatial references (on left/right/front/ behind). Once we get the updated image, we feed it to the LXMERT (Tan and Bansal, 2019) finetuned over the CLEVR  (Johnson et al., 2017a)  dataset along with the question and predict the answer. I SG T T + T A RoBERT a RACE A Q H Baseline 3: I I LXM ERT CLEV R A T A F P Q H Baseline 2: I LXM ERT CLEV R_HY P A T A + Q H Baseline 4: I SG SG ? Symbolic A T A F P Q H F P Baseline 4-Scene Graph Update Model: Instead of directly manipulating images, in this method, we leverage image scene graphs to convert image-editing problem into graph-editing problem, conditioned on the action text. This is an emerging research direction to deal with changes in the visual modality over time or with new sources of information, as observed from recent parallel works (chang  Chen et al., 2020; He et al., 2020) . We first use Mask R-CNN  (He et al., 2017)  to get the segmentation mask of the objects and predict attributes (color, material, size, and shape) with an acceptance threshold of 0.9. Segmentation mask of each object along with original image is then passed through ResNet-34  (He et al., 2016)  to extract precise 3D coordinates of the object. We get the structured scene graph for the image. Then we use seq2seq with attention model originally proposed in  (Johnson et al., 2017b)  to generate functional programs (FP) for action text and question. The execution engine executes programs on scene graph, implemented as a neural module network  (Andreas et al., 2016)  to update the scene representation and answer questions. We learn to update scene graphs according to functional program for the action text using reinforcement learning 7 . The reward function is as-7 finetuning learning rate=1e?05, 1M iterations with early sociated with our ground-truth program executor and generates reward if prediction exactly matches with ground-truth execution. Once we get the updated scene representation, we use neural-symbolic model 8 proposed by  (Yi et al., 2018)  to obtain the final answer. It is notable that  (Yi et al., 2018)  achieved near-perfect performance on the CLEVR QA task in addition to being fully explainable. 

 Baseline Results In this section, we benchmark models described above on the CLEVR_HYP. The dataset is formulated as a classification task with exactly one correct answer, so we use standard accuracy as evaluation metric. We then analyze their performance according to question and action types. Quantitative results from above experiments can be visualized in top part of the Table  3 . Among the methods described above, the scene graph update model has the best overall performance 70.5% on original test data. Text-editing model is best over balanced set, but observed to have the poor generalization capability when two actions or reasoning capabilities have to be performed. CLEVR_HYP requires models to reason about effect of hypothetical actions taken over images. LXMERT is not directly trained for this objective therefore, it struggles to do well on this task. The reason behind the poor performance of text-only baseline is due to its limitation to incorporate detailed spatial locations into the templates that we use to convert image into a machine comprehension passage. Two of our models (scene graph update and textediting image) are transparent to visualize intermediate changes in the scene after performing actions. We analyse their ability to understand actions and make appropriate changes as shown in below part of Table  3 . For the scene graph method, we compare the ground-truth functional program with the generated program and measure their exact-match accuracy. For the text-editing image method, we generate scene graphs for both images (original image and image after text-editing) and compare them. For attributes, we do exact-match, whereas for location information we consider matching only on the basis of relative spatial location. Both scene graph and text-editing models do quite well on 'remove' and 'change' actions whereas struggle when new objects are added or existing objects are moved around. The observation is consistent when multiple actions are combined. Therefore, actions remove+change can be performed with maximum accuracy whereas other combinations of actions accomplish relatively lower performance. It leads to the conclusion that understanding the effect of different actions are of varied complexity. Most models demonstrate better performance over counting, existence and attribute query type of questions than comparison questions. The scene graph update and text-editing methods show a performance drop of 6.1% and 9.1% respectively when multiple actions are performed on the scene. However, there is less of a performance gap for models on 2HopQ H compared to the test set, suggesting that models are able to better generalize with respect to multiple reasoning skills than complex actions. 

 Conclusion We introduce CLEVR_HYP, a dataset to evaluate the ability of VQA systems after hypothetical actions are performed over the given image. We create this dataset by extending the data generation framework of CLEVR  (Johnson et al., 2017a ) that uses synthetically rendered images and templates for reasoning questions. Our dataset is challenging because rather than asking to reason about objects already present in the image, it asks about what would happen in an alternative world where changes have occurred. We provide ground-truth representations for images, hypothetical actions and questions to facilitate the development of models that systematically learn to reason about underlying process. We create several baseline models to benchmark CLEVR_HYP and report their results. Our analysis shows that the models are able to perform reasonably well (70.5%) on the limited number of actions and reasoning types, but struggle with complex scenarios. While neural models have achieved almost perfect performance on CLEVR and considering human performance as upperbound (98%), there is a lot of room for improvement on CLEVR_HYP. Our future work would include relaxing constraints by allowing a larger variety of actions, attributes and reasoning types. By extending this approach further for natural images, we aim to contribute in the development of better vision+language models. 
