title
A Statistical Spoken Dialogue System using Complex User Goals and Value Directed Compression
abstract
This paper presents the first demonstration of a statistical spoken dialogue system that uses automatic belief compression to reason over complex user goal sets .
Reasoning over the power set of possible user goals allows complex sets of user goals to be represented , which leads to more natural dialogues .
The use of the power set results in a massive expansion in the number of belief states maintained by the Partially Observable Markov Decision Process ( POMDP ) spoken dialogue manager .
A modified form of Value Directed Compression ( VDC ) is applied to the POMDP belief states producing a near-lossless compression which reduces the number of bases required to represent the belief distribution .
Introduction
One of the main problems for a spoken dialogue system ( SDS ) is to determine the user 's goal ( e.g. plan suitable meeting times or find a good Indian restaurant nearby ) under uncertainty , and thereby to compute the optimal next system dialogue action ( e.g. offer a restaurant , ask for clarification ) .
Recent research in statistical SDSs has successfully addressed aspects of these problems through the application of Partially Observable Markov Decision Process ( POMDP ) approaches ( Thomson and Young , 2010 ; Young et al. , 2010 ) .
However POMDP SDSs are currently limited by the representation of user goals adopted to make systems computationally tractable .
Work in dialogue system evaluation , e.g. Walker et al. ( 2004 ) and Lemon et al . ( 2006 ) , shows that real user goals are generally sets of items , rather than a single item .
People like to explore possible trade offs between the attributes of items .
Crook and Lemon ( 2010 ) identified this as a central challenge for the field of spoken dialogue systems , proposing the use of automatic compression techniques to allow for extended accurate representations of user goals .
This paper presents a proof of concept of these ideas in the form of a complete , working spoken dialogue system .
The POMDP dialogue manager ( DM ) of this demonstration system uses a compressed belief space that was generated using a modified version of the Value Directed Compression ( VDC ) algorithm as originally proposed by Poupart ( 2005 ) .
This demonstration system extends work presented by Crook and Lemon ( 2011 ) in that it embeds the compressed complex user goal belief space into a working system and demonstrates planning ( and acting ) in the compressed space .
Complex User Goals
The type of SDS task that we focus on is a limiteddomain query - dialogue , also known as a " slot filling " task .
The spoken dialogue system has knowledge about some set of objects where these objects have attributes and these attributes can take several values .
An object can thus be described by a conjunction of attribute - value pairs .
A dialogue progresses with the system obtaining requirements from the user which are specified in terms of attribute values .
The system should eventually present objects ( search results ) based upon its understanding of the user 's requirement .
The dialogue ends when the user accepts one of the domain objects .
Prior work on POMDP SDSs has assumed that a user has a narrowly constrained goal ( as speci - fied in terms of the domain objects ) and thus the role of the DM is one of reducing uncertainty until its belief is strongly focused on a particular domain object .
This has the unfortunate effect of forcing users to select one domain object in order to progress the dialogue , see Table 1 .
Note that the example given is problematic not only because the user wants two different food types but because they have different requirements associated with each , i.e .
Thai restaurants should be in the centre and cheap , while any French restaurants should be expensive 1 and can be located anywhere .
To our knowledge such a combination of goals with different attribute values cannot be straightforwardly handled by comparable state - of - the - art statistical SDSs which appear in the literature .
Crook and Lemon ( 2011 ) suggest that rather than the DM assuming that the user has a single narrowly constrained goal in mind , it should assume that they want any possible sub-set of the complete set of domain objects .
Thus , instead of maintaining the POMDP belief over individual domain objects , it should be maintained over the power set of domain objects .
As an example see Table 3 which is the power set for a domain with three objects that can take two attributes u , v with associated values u1 , u2 , u3 and v1 respectively .
The power set representation allows the demonstration system to straightforwardly handle previously problematic dialogues .
See Table 2 . Of course this approach significantly expands the 1 Interpreted as non-budget by the system since its database only classifies restaurants as budget or non-budget .
state space of possible user goals , with the number of goal sets being equal to 2 | domain objects | .
Automatic Compression
Even considering limited domains , POMDP state spaces for SDSs grow very quickly .
Thus the current state - of- the- art in POMDP SDSs uses a variety of handcrafted compression techniques , such as making several types of independence assumption as discussed above .
Crook and Lemon ( 2010 ) propose replacing handcrafted compressions with automatic compression techniques .
The idea is to use principled statistical methods for automatically reducing the dimensionality of belief spaces , but which preserve useful distributions from the full space , and thus can more accurately represent real user 's goals .
VDC Algorithm
The VDC algorithm ( Poupart , 2005 ) uses Krylov iteration to compute a reduced state space .
It finds a set of linear basis vectors that can reproduce the value 2 of being in any of the original POMDP states .
Where , if a lossless VDC compression is possible , the number of basis vectors is less than the original number of POMDP states .
The intuition here is that if the value of taking an action in a given state has been preserved then planning is equally as reliable in the compressed space as the in full space .
The VDC algorithm requires a fully specified POMDP , i.e. S , A , O , T , ? , R where S is the set state goal set meaning : user 's goal is s 1 ? ( empty set ) none of the domain objects s 2 u = u1 ? v = v1 domain object 1 s 3 u = u2 ? v = v1 domain object 2 s 4 u = u3 ? v = v1 domain object 3 s 5 ( u = u1 ? v = v1 ) ? ( u = u2 ? v = v1 ) domain objects 1 or 2 s 6 ( u = u1 ? v = v1 ) ? ( u = u3 ? v = v1 ) domain objects 1 or 3 s 7 ( u = u2 ? v = v1 ) ? ( u = u3 ? v = v1 ) domain objects 2 or 3 s 8 ( u = u1 ? v = v1 ) ? ( u = u2 ? v = v1 ) ? ( u = u3 ? v = v1 ) any of the domain objects Table 3 : Example of complex user goal sets .
of states , A is the set of actions , O is the set of observations , T conditional transition probabilities , ? conditional observation probabilities , and R is the reward function .
Since it iteratively projects the rewards associated with each state and action using the state transition and observation probabilities , the compression found is dependent on structures and regularities in the POMDP model .
The set of basis vectors found can be used to project the POMDP reward , transition , and observation probabilities into the reduced state space allowing the policy to be learnt and executed in this state space .
Although the VDC algorithm ( Poupart , 2005 ) produces compressions that are lossless in terms of the states ' values , the set of basis vectors found ( when viewed as a transformation matrix ) can be ill-conditioned .
This results in numerical instability and errors in the belief estimation .
The compression used in this demonstration was produced using a modified VDC algorithm that improves the matrix condition by approximately selecting the most independent basis vectors , thus improving numerical stability .
It achieves near-lossless state value compression while allowing belief estimation errors to be minimised and traded - off against the amount of compression .
Details of this algorithm are to appear in a forthcoming publication .
3 System Description
Components Input and output to the demonstration system is using standard open source and commercial components .
FreeSWITCH ( Minessale II , 2012 ) provides a platform for accepting incoming Voice over IP calls , routing them ( using the Media Resource Control Protocol ( MRCP ) ) to a Nuance 9.0 Automatic Speech Recogniser ( Nuance , 2012 ) .
Output is similarly handled by FreeSWITCH routing system responses via a CereProc Text- to - Speech MRCP server ( CereProc , 2012 ) in order to respond to the user .
The heart of the demonstration system consists of a State-Estimator server which estimates the current dialogue state using the compressed state space previously produced by VDC , a Policy - Executor server that selects actions based on the compressed estimated state , and a template based Natural Language Generator server .
These servers , along with FreeSWITCH , use ZeroC's Internet Communications Engine ( Ice ) middleware ( ZeroC , 2012 ) as a common communications platform .
SDS Domain
The demonstration system provides a restaurant finder system for the city of Edinburgh ( Scotland , UK ) .
It presents search results from a real database of over 600 restaurants .
The search results are based on the attributes specified by the user , currently ; location , food type and budget / non- budget .
Interface
The demonstration SDS is typically accessed over the phone network .
For debugging and demonstration purposes it is possible to visualise the belief distribution maintained by the DM as dialogues progress .
The compressed version of the belief distribution is not a conventional probability distribution 3 and its visualisation is uninformative .
Instead we take advantage of the reversibility of the VDC compression and project the distribution back onto the full state space .
For an example of the evolution of the belief distribution during a dialogue see Figure 1 .
Conclusions
We present a demonstration of a statistical SDS that uses automatic belief compression to reason over complex user goal sets .
Using the power set of domain objects as the states of the POMDP DM allows complex sets of user goals to be represented , which leads to more natural dialogues .
To address the massive expansion in the number of belief states , a modified form of VDC is used to generate a compression .
It is this compressed space which is used by the DM for planning and acting in response to user utterances .
This is the first demonstration of a statistical SDS that uses automatic belief compression to reason over complex user goal sets .
VDC and other automated compression techniques reduce the human design load by automating part of the current POMDP SDS design process .
This reduces the knowledge required when building such statistical systems and should make them easier for industry to deploy .
Such compression approaches are not only applicable to SDSs but should be equally relevant for multi-modal interaction systems where several modalities are being combined in user- goal or state estimation .
Future Work
The current demonstration system is a proof of concept and is limited to a small number of attributes and attribute- values .
Part of our ongoing work involves investigation of scaling .
For example , increasing the number of attributevalues should produce more regularities across the POMDP space .
Does VDC successfully exploit these ?
We are in the process of collecting corpora for the Edinburgh restaurant domain mentioned above with the aim that the POMDP observation and transition statistics can be derived from data .
As part of this work we have launched a long term , public facing outlet for testing and data collection , see http:\\www.edinburghinfo.
co.uk .
It is planned to make future versions of the demonstration system discussed in this paper available via this public outlet .
Finally we are investigating the applicability of other automatic belief ( and state ) compression techniques for SDSs , e.g. E-PCA ( Roy and Gordon , 2002 ) . after second user utterance .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure1 : Evolution of the belief distribution for the example dialogue in Table2 .
The horizontal length of each bar corresponds to the probability of that complex user goal state .
Note that the x-axis uses a logarithmic scale to allow low probability values to be seen .
The y-axis is the set of complex user goals ordered by probability .
Lighter shaded ( green ) bars indicate complex user goal states corresponding to " cheap , central Thai " and " cheap , central Thai or expensive French anywhere " in figures ( b ) and ( c ) respectively .
The count '# ' indicates the number of states in those groups .
Table 1 : 1 Example dialogue using simple user goals .
S=System , U=User. ' -' indicates the user barged in .
User goal : cheap central
Thai or expensive French S : Hello , how can I help you ?
U : I 'm looking for a cheap central Thai restaurant .
S : You 're looking for budget , city centre , Thai restaurants .
- U : Or an expensive French restaurant anywhere .
S : You 're looking for non-budget French restaurants .
What - U : And cheap , city centre , Thai .
S : You 're looking for budget , city centre , Thai restaurants .
What about - U : ( SIGH ) And French .
S : You 're looking for budget , city centre , French restaurants .
What about - U : ( HANG UP )
Table 2 : 2 What about the Plumed Horse in Leith ? ?
The Plumed Horse is a Michelin starred French ...
Example dialogue using complex user goals .
S=System , U=User . ? Old
Town is part of the city centre .
?
Leith is outside the centre .
User goal : cheap central
Thai or expensive French S : Hello , how can I help you ?
U : I 'm looking for a cheap central Thai restaurant .
S : You 're looking for budget , city centre , Thai restaurants .
- U : Or an expensive French restaurant anywhere .
S : You 're looking for budget , city centre , Thai restaurants or non-budget French .
What about Chang Thai in Old Town ? ? Chang
Thai 's set lunch price is ?
7.95 - U : What alternatives do you have ?
S :
Table 2 2 .
The horizontal length of each bar corresponds to the probability of that com- plex user goal state .
Note that the x-axis uses a log- arithmic scale to allow low probability values to be seen .
The y-axis is the set of complex user goals or- dered by probability .
Lighter shaded ( green ) bars indi- cate complex user goal states corresponding to " cheap , central Thai " and " cheap , central Thai or expensive French anywhere " in figures ( b ) and ( c ) respectively .
The count '# ' indicates the number of states in those groups .
The sum of discounted future rewards obtained through following some series of actions .
The values associated with the basis vectors are not confined to the range [ 0 ? 1 ] .
