title
Non-Topical Coherence in Social Talk : A Call for Dialogue Model Enrichment
abstract
Current models of dialogue mainly focus on utterances within a topically coherent discourse segment , rather than new-topic utterances ( NTUs ) , which begin a new topic not correlating with the content of prior discourse .
As a result , these models may sufficiently account for discourse context of task - oriented but not social conversations .
We conduct a pilot annotation study of NTUs as a first step towards a model capable of rationalizing conversational coherence in social talk .
We start with the naturally occurring social dialogues in the Disco - SPICE corpus , annotated with discourse relations in the Penn Discourse Treebank ( PDTB ) and Cognitive approach to Coherence Relations ( CCR ) frameworks .
We first annotate content - based coherence relations that are not available in Disco - SPICE , and then heuristically identify NTUs , which lack a coherence relation to prior discourse .
Based on the interaction between NTUs and their discourse context , we construct a classification for NTUs that actually convey certain non-topical coherence in social talk .
This classification introduces new sequence - based social intents that traditional taxonomies of speech acts do not capture .
The new findings advocates the development of a Bayesian game-theoretic model for social talk .
1
Introduction and Background Social talk or casual conversation , one of the most popular instances of spontaneous discourse , is commonly defined as the speech event type in which " all participants have the same role : to be " equals ; " no purposes are pre-established ; and the range of possible topics is open-ended , although conventionally constrained " ( Scha et al. , 1986 ) .
Even though we do not establish any purposes in terms of information exchange or practical tasks , we do share certain social goal from the back of our mind when deciding to engage in a casual conversation .
This work rests upon the assumption that casual conversations can be modeled as goal-directed rational interactions , similar to task - oriented conversations , and therefore both of these types demonstrate Grice 's Cooperative Principle , i.e. conversational moves are constrained by " a common purpose or set of purposes , or at least a mutually accepted direction " which " may be fixed from the start " or " evolve during the exchange " , " may be fairly definite " or " so indefinite as to leave very considerable latitude to the participant " ( Grice , 1975 ) .
A similar assumption is made in Grosz and Sidner ( 1986 ) 's discourse structure framework as it affirms the primary role of speakers ' intentions in " explaining discourse structure , defining discourse coherence , and providing a coherent conceptualization of the term " discourse " itself . "
We adopt the following terminology from Grosz and Sidner ( 1986 ) : ? utterances - basic discourse units .
? discourse segments - functional sequences of naturally aggregated utterances ( not necessarily consecutive ) , each corresponding to a discourse segment purpose ( DSP ) - an extension of Gricean utterance - level intentions .
To account for conversational coherence , current models 2 of dialogue mainly focus on utterances within a topically coherent discourse segment , rather than new-topic utterances ( NTUs ) , which begin a new topic not linguistically 3 correlating with the content of prior discourse .
For example , the excerpt shown in and Kirk , 2012 ) between two interlocutors A and B. carides ( 2003 ) 's Segmented Discourse Representation
Theory attributes conversational coherence to the existence of rhetorical relations between utterances , while Ginzburg ( 2012 ) and ( Roberts , 1996 ( Roberts , / 2012 propose that a conversational move is coherent if it is relevant to the Question Under Discussion .
Computational models such as Belief-Desire-Intention ( Allen , 1995 , chapter 17 ) and Information State Update ( Larsson and Traum , 2000 ) assume coherence to be a natural property of dialogues within a specific task domain .
These models , both theoretical and computational , may adequately account for discourse dynamics of taskoriented conversations , where adjacent utterances tend to share a lot of linguistic material and speakers ' intents are drawn from a narrow set of taskrelated goals .
However , without any enrichment , they are not capable of handling the complexity of conversational coherence in social talk in which both speaker goals and utterances are less con-strained .
Specifically , all of these models treat NTUs as incoherent conversational moves .
This work , therefore , seeks to identify the constraints on new topics in casual conversations as a first step towards a model which is capable of rationalizing NTUs and accounting for conversational coherence in social talk .
The main contributions of this paper are as follows .
We introduce NTUs as a novel research object that is capable of advancing our understanding of the interactive and rational aspects of social talk .
We propose an annotation strategy for exploring NTUs in naturally occurring dialogues .
A pilot annotation study of NTUs in a significant amount of spoken conversation text led us to amend the available taxonomies of speech acts with new sequence - based social intents that shed light on non-topical coherence in social talk .
These new findings feed into a framework for the Bayesian game-theoretic models that are capable of predicting the emergence of the newly identified intents and accounting for conversational coherence in social talk .
Methodology Overview
Before studying the interaction between NTUs and their discourse context , we need to locate them in instances of social talk .
Riou ( 2015 ) handles a similar task by annotating every turn-constructional unit ( TCU ) in casual conversations with two topicrelated variables : ? topic transition vs. topic continuity .
? stepwise vs. disjunctive transition ( Jefferson , 1984 ) if the TCU is annotated as a transition .
The TCUs triggering disjunctive transitions are intentionally equivalent to NTUs and the corresponding transitions can also be called disjunctive topic changes 4 ( DTCs ) , i.e. conversational moves whose linguistic representation is an NTU .
To perform the annotation task in Riou ( 2015 ) , the annotators completely rely on their own intuition rather than guidelines .
5
This negatively affects annotation reliability , especially for topic transition cases , which are much less frequent in the studied data .
To improve the reliability and rigor of NTU detection , we approach the task reversely : we first annotate content - based coherence relations between utterances and then identify NTUs as those utterances that bear no coherence relation to the content of prior discourse .
This approach shares certain features with the integration of new utterances in free dialogues presented in Reichman ( 1978 ) : if a new utterance is not covered by the current conversational topic , the hearer can expand the current topic to cover it , or connect its topic with the current topic using a semantic relation from a predefined set .
This similarity reflects the following view of discourse coherence : " [ a discourse is ] coherent just in case ( a ) every proposition ( and question and request ) that 's introduced in the discourse is rhetorically connected to another bit of information in the discourse , resulting in a ' single ' connected structure for the whole discourse ; and ( b ) all anaphoric expressions can be resolved " ; and therefore , " [ a ] discourse is incoherent whenever there 's a proposition introduced in the discourse which does n't seem to be connected to any of the other bits of the discourse in any meaningful way . "
( Asher and Lascarides , 2003 , p. 4 ) .
The main difference between Reichman ( 1978 ) 's model of topic shift and our work is that the former allows the total shift relation , the succeeding topic of which is totally new , only when all of the preceding topics have been exhausted and closed , while we do not impose any constraints on the nature of DTCs .
We assume that interlocutors are coherent in naturally occurring conversations ( wherein incoherent moves need convincing evidence ) .
Analyzing the coherence of a conversation , we put ourselves in conversational participants ' shoes and rely on our communicative competence to identify all possible DSPs that account for the relevance of each conversational move .
We are interested in the cases where an identified DSP cannot be assigned to a pre-existing coherence relation .
We hypothesize that the pre-existing coherence relations account for topical coherence ( i.e. talk - about ) , but not nontopical coherence such as interactional coherence ( i.e. talk - that-does ) ( Clift , 2016 , p.92 ) .
Annotating Coherence Relations
We start with the casual telephone dialogues in the Disco- SPICE corpus 6 ( Rehbein et al. , 2016 ) , based on the SPICE - Ireland corpus 7 ( Kallen and Kirk , 2012 ) , in which discourse relations - triples consisting of a discourse- level predicate and its two arguments - are annotated with the CCR ( Sanders et al. , 1992 ) and the early version of the PDTB 3.0 ( Webber et al. , 2016 ) schemes .
We ignore the CCR annotations in favour of the PDTB 3.0 - based annotation because the latter covers more discourse relations in the corpus , including : ? explicit discourse relations between any two discourse segments ( whose predicate is an explicit discourse connective such as " because " or " however " ) .
? implicit / AltLex relations between utterances given by the same speaker ( whose predicate is not represented by an explicit discourse connective but can be inferred or alternatively lexicalized by some non-connective expression , respectively ) .
8 ? entity - based coherence relations ( EntRel ) between adjacent utterances given by the same speaker ( whose predicate is an abstract placeholder linking two arguments that mention the same entity ) .
In the excerpt shown in Table 1 , utterances 104 and 105 are two arguments of an implicit relation that can be realized by a connective " in particular " , while 121 and 122 are the arguments of an entitybased relation that is signaled by the pronoun " it " .
We enrich Disco-SPICE with SPICE - Ireland 's original pragmatic annotation , consisting of Searlean speech acts ( Searle , 1976 ) , prosody , and quotatives among others .
This information is helpful in identifying , for example , the quote content , or speech act query , i.e. asking for information , even in declarative clauses .
We use the latest version of the PDTB 3.0 taxonomy of discourse relations ( Webber et al. , 2019 ) , and annotate the instances which are not covered in the Disco - SPICE corpus , such as : ? implicit / AltLex discourse relations between utterances given by different speakers .
? entity - based coherence relations between adjacent utterances given by different speakers .
? entity - based coherence relations between nonadjacent utterances .
annotated in a significant amount of spoken conversation text .
Specifically , if a relation is not entity - based , it will be labeled with a sense in the PDTB 3.0 sense hierarchy .
Annotators are encouraged to choose the most fine- grained labels .
For example , expansion .
equivalence is preferred over expansion for an expansion .
equivalence relation , although both are acceptable .
In total , there are 53 sense labels available for explicit / implicit / AltLex discourse relations .
We also enrich our repertory of content - based coherence relations with additional semantic relations from ISO 24617 - 8 and ISO 24617 - 2 , which take care of the interactive nature of dialogue : ? functional dependence relations characterizing the semantic dependence between two dialogue acts due to their communicative functions ( cf. adjacency pairs in Conversation Analysis ) 9 , named after the first pair part : information - seeking : propositionalQ , checkQ , setQ , choiceQ. directive : request , instruct , suggest .
commissive : promise , offer .
social obligation management : apology , thanking , greeting , goodbye .
? feedback dependence relations connecting a stretch of discourse and a response utterance that provides or elicits information about the success in processing that stretch .
? additional entity - based coherence relations relating to other communicative functions such as topic closing ( as a discourse structuring function ) and completion ( as a partner communication management function ) .
In Table 1 , utterances 105 and 106 are two arguments of a propositionalQ functional dependence relation , while 109 and 111 are the arguments of a feedback relation .
It is worth noting that the argument order of annotated coherence relations is chronological , i.e. the second argument always appears after the first argument in the conversational flow .
We aim at annotating coherence relations that cover as many utterances as possible ( rather than exhaustively annotating every relation ) , adding notes to the ones that are not very clear and therefore can be considered non-existent in the next step - NTU identification .
In case of multiple relations available to the same pair of arguments , annotating just one relation is sufficient .
As seen in Table 2 , the ratio of the coherence relations inherited from Disco - SPICE to the newly annotated ones is 1 , 273/1 , 870 ? 2/3 , which means that using Disco - SPICE saves us a considerable portion of annotation workload .
While this efficiency is optimal for a pilot study , it does not provide the full picture of our proposed annotation task .
We plan to use this study 's annotation guidelines to conduct a full- blown annotation project on the data set 10 composed by Riou ( 2015 ) , aiming at ( 1 ) performing in - depth empirical studies such as detailed analyses of the distribution of annotated relations and annotation disagreements , and ( 2 ) enriching the linguistic resources for studying dialogue coherence .
In addition , the results of this study can serve as an assessment of the reliability of Riou ( 2015 ) 's annotation methodology .
Identifying NTU Candidates Based on both inherited and newly annotated relations described in Section 3 , excluding those relations noted as " not very clear " , which account for less than 3 % of the newly annotated relations , we heuristically identified 72 candidates for NTUs , each of which is : ? not the first utterance of a dialogue , ? the first utterance token of the first argument of some coherence relation , ? not part of 2 nd argument of another relation , ? not in the dialogue span of another relation .
Identifying NTUs and Patterns of DTCs
An NTU candidate identified in Section 4 is valid only if there is no a content - based coherence relation with respect to prior discourse , which can be missed or annotated as " not very clear " in Section 3 .
To separate genuine NTUs from other NTU candidates , we carry out a more detailed inspection .
Specifically , the following pieces of information are further annotated for each NTU candidate : ? the immediately preceding topic . ? the current topic , its focused entity 11 , and its information status , i.e. given- new w.r.t. discourse / hearer ( Prince , 1992 ; Birner , 2006 ) . ? the interlocutors involved in content , if any , and their roles ( speaker / hearer ) .
? the links between the current topic and : the pre-dialogue common ground .
the utterance situation ( time and space ) .
the content of prior discourse .
We were able to single out 38 true cases of NTUs , roughly 50 % of NTU candidates , which contain discourse - new topics and new focused entities .
Based on the annotated information about the interaction between the NTUs and their discourse context , we identified the following patterns of DTCs ( see detailed examples in Appendix B ) : ? Grosz and Sidner ( 1986 ) 's true interruption .
? forgotten topic ( when the speaker cannot articulate the topic she intents to talk about ) .
? the first topic after greeting .
? goodbye-initialized topic ( when saying goodbye opens a new discussion thread ) .
? interlocutor-decentric move ( from a topic focusing on one of the interlocutors ) .
? interlocutor-centric move : interlocutor-centric return ( from a topic not focusing on the interlocutors ) .
interlocutor-centric switching ( from a topic focusing on one interlocutor to a topic focusing on the other ) .
urgent interlocutor-centric topic in extralinguistic utterance situation ( when the speaker suddenly prioritizes an urgent topic related to one of the interlocutors ) .
11 Inspired by the ideas of focus of attention and local coherence in Grosz et al . ( 1995 ) . speaker -centric distraction ( an off-track topic focusing on the speaker ) .
speaker -centric wrap - up ( when the attempt to wrap up the conversation opens a new discussion thread ) .
hearer -centric related topic ( from a topic not focusing on interlocutors ) .
? cushioning topic ( from interlocutor-decentric to interlocutor-centric ) - topic immediately relevant to an interlocutor 's life .
The presence of cushioning topics implies that the speaker may plan , at least , " two steps ahead " , including : ? the interpretation the hearer may have , and ? the potential of topic extension based on that interpretation .
In addition , the patterns of goodbye-initialized topic and speaker -centric wrap - up can elicit better insight into the findings in Gilmartin et al . ( 2018 ) about the extended leave- taking sequences .
Classifying NTUs
The patterns of DTCs identified in Section 5 ( except for Grosz and Sidner ( 1986 ) 's true interruption and the forgotten topic , covering 7 identified instances of NTUs ) show that non-topical coherence , sustained or built by DTCs , is created via sequential adjustment of the distances between the active conversational topic and each interlocutor .
This adjustment seems to be constrained by the relational work between the interlocutors , i.e. the social aspect of the conversations , rather than the content - based relevance .
Based on the interlocutors ' intents , a simple version of the classification of NTUs in social dialogues , covering 31 identified instances of NTUs , can be proposed as below : ? socially initialized topic ( the first topic after greeting ) - 2 instances .
? topic merely motivated by changing social focus ( urgent interlocutor-centric topic in extralinguistic utterance situation , speaker - centric distraction ) - 3 instances .
? topic merely motivated by changing the degree of relevance of social domains ( interlocutor - decentric move , cushioning topic , interlocutor-centric return ) - 9 instances .
? topic motivated by changing both social focus and the degree of relevance of social domains ( generally embodied in the other patterns of DTCs ) - 17 instances .
This classification introduces new sequencebased social intents 12 that traditional taxonomies of speech acts do not capture as the social intents proposed in these taxonomies , if any , do not demonstrate the sequential dynamics of the relational work between the interlocutors ( e.g. ISO 24617 - 2 's social obligation management functions , Kl?wer ( 2011 ) 's dialogue acts for social talk , or van der Zwaan et al . ( 2012 ) 's social support categories ) .
These newly found intents , characterizing nontopical coherence in social talk , convincingly demonstrate social talk as a sophisticated form of goal- directed rational interactions rather than a random walk through loosely connected topics .
This shows real promise and new perspectives for research in dialogue modeling .
We hypothesize that a workable dialogue model for social talk needs to explicitly handle all of the key aspects of goaldirected rational interactions .
Toward a Game-theoretic Model
To formally capture the interactive and rational aspects of social conditioned language use in conversation , recent work such as Iterated Best Response ( Franke , 2009 ) , Rational Speech Act ( Frank and Goodman , 2012 ) , and Social Meaning Game ( Burnett , 2019 ) pairs Lewis ( 1969 Lewis ( / 2002 's signaling games with the Bayesian approach to speaker / listener reasoning .
In essence , these models formalize Gricean inference by predicting :
Speaker behavior : the probability P s ( o|h , C s ) that the speaker uses the observed linguistic value o to convey hidden meaning h in the speaker 's context model C s is a function of U s ( o , h , C s ) ) , the utility of o in C s given the speaker 's desire to communicate h. ?
P s ( o|h , C s ) ? exp (? ?
U s ( o , h , C s ) ) ( where ? is a normalizing constant )
Listener behavior : the probability P l ( h|o , C l ) that the listener interprets the meaning of o as h in the listener 's context model C l depends on the prior probability P ( h ) of the speaker having h in mind ( e.g. based on certain sociocultural convention ) and on the probability P s ( o|h , C l ) that the speaker uses o to convey h in C l , estimated by the listener .
?
P l ( h|o , C l ) ? P ( h ) ?
P s ( o|h , C l )
Based on this framework , we can develop a minimally workable model that accounts for the emer-12
These intents should be taken with the caveat concerning the cross-cultural generalization about their validity .
gence of sequence - based social intents in marked linguistic environments where NTUs occur ( cf. Acton and Burnett ( 2019 ) for social meaning ) : ?
Hidden : the speaker 's social intents .
?
Observed : Topics chosen / topic transitions .
?
Cost : content - based complexity of the topic transitions ( e.g. from the perspective of cognitive processing ) .
?
Utility : subtraction of the cost from the coherence measure ( which reflects both types of coherence : topical and non-topical ) .
However , this model design is not robust enough to predict the emergence of the newly classified sequence - based social intents due to the simplicity of the utility function .
Specifically , the forthright division of labor between the cost and coherence measure does not capture the real interactions between the components of these metric concepts , such as multiple sociolinguistic dimensions of the discourse context .
We will address this challenge in our further work .
Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper , we present a pilot annotation study 13 as a first step towards a dialogue model which is capable of rationalizing NTUs and conversational coherence in social talk .
Analyzing the interaction between the identified NTUs and their discourse context , we discover a set of patterns of DTCs , represented by the NTUs .
Based on these patterns , we propose a simple classification of NTUs in social talk , yet introducing new sequence - based social intents that traditional taxonomies of speech acts do not capture .
These intents not only adequately account for non-topical coherence in social talk but also convincingly demonstrate social talk as a sophisticated form of goal-directed rational interactions .
We hypothesize that the Bayesian gametheoretic framework , which explicitly models the interactive and rational aspects of social interaction , is a sensible architecture for handling social talk .
Next , we aim to develop an actionable Bayesian game-theoretic model for social talk , focusing on decomposing its utility function .
Particularly , we seek to learn from social interaction work such as Stevanovic and Koski ( 2018 ) for designing the goal- directedness aspect of the model .
