title
Negative Training for Neural Dialogue Response Generation
abstract
Although deep learning models have brought tremendous advancements to the field of opendomain dialogue response generation , recent research results have revealed that the trained models have undesirable generation behaviors , such as malicious responses and generic ( boring ) responses .
In this work , we propose a framework named " Negative Training " to minimize such behaviors .
Given a trained model , the framework will first find generated samples that exhibit the undesirable behavior , and then use them to feed negative training signals for fine-tuning the model .
Our experiments show that negative training can significantly reduce the hit rate of malicious responses , or discourage frequent responses and improve response diversity .
Introduction End-to- end dialogue response generation can be formulated as a sequence-to-sequence ( seq2seq ) task : given a dialogue context , the model is asked to generate a high-quality response .
In recent years , deep learning models , especially seq2seq language generation models ( Sutskever et al. , 2014 ; Cho et al. , 2014 ) , have brought significant progress to the field of dialogue response generation .
However , recent research has revealed undesirable behaviors of seq2seq models that are side effects of standard maximum likelihood estimation ( MLE ) training , such as the generic ( boring ) response problem ( Li et al. , 2016 ) , vulnerability to adversarial attacks ( Cheng et al. , 2018 ; Belinkov and Bisk , 2017 ) , and the malicious ( egregious ) response problem ( He and Glass , 2019 ) .
In this work , we propose and explore the negative training framework to correct unwanted behaviors of a dialogue response generator .
During negative training , we first find or identify input-output pairs for a trained seq2seq model that exhibit some
The idea of negative training is inspired from the way parents might teach their children to use language by incorporating both positive and negative training signals .
For example , when teaching children how to use " love " and " hate " , in addition to using positive examples like " I love apples but I hate bananas " , they might also point out that saying " I hate you " to someone is considered impolite .
In this work , negative training is used to address the malicious response problem and the frequent response problem ( to be described in Section 3.2 and 3 . 3 ) in open-domain dialogue response generation .
In our experiments , we show that negative training can significantly reduce the hit rate for malicious responses , or discourage frequent responses and greatly improve response diversity .
Model Formulation
In this work we adopt recurrent neural network ( RNN ) based encoder-decoder seq2seq models ( Sutskever et al. , 2014 ; Cho et al. , 2014 ; Mikolov et al. , 2010 ) , which are widely used in NLP applications like dialogue response generation ( Li et al. , 2016 ) , machine translation ( Luong et al. , 2015 ) , etc .
We use x = {x 1 , x 2 , ... , x n } to denote onehot vector representations of the input sequence , which serves as context or history information ( e.g. the previous utterance ) , y = {y 1 , y 2 , ... , y m } 1 to denote scalar indices of the corresponding reference target sequence , and V as the vocabulary .
We use ? to represent the parameters for the seq2seq model , and P ? ( y|x ) as the model 's generative distribution .
On the encoder side , every x t will be first mapped into its corresponding word embedding x emb t .
Then {x emb t } are input to a long-short term memory ( LSTM ) ( Hochreiter and Schmidhuber , 1997 ) RNN to get a sequence of latent representations {h enc t } 2 .
For the decoder , at time t , similarly y t is first mapped to y emb t .
Then a context vector c t , which is supposed to capture useful latent information of the input sequence , needs to be constructed .
We adopt the " attention " mechanism for context vector construction : first an attention mask vector a t ( which is a distribution ) on the input sequence is calculated to decide which part to focus on , then the mask is applied to the latent vectors to construct c t : c t = n i=1 a t( i ) h enc i .
We use the formulation of the " general " type of global attention , described in ( Luong et al. , 2015 ) , to calculate the mask .
During baseline training , standard MLE training with stochastic gradient descent ( SGD ) is used to minimize the negative log-likelihood ( NLL ) of the reference target sentence given the input sentence in the data : L MLE ( P data ; ? ) = E ( x, y ) ?
P data ( ? log P ? ( y| x ) ) = E ( x, y ) ?
P data ( ? m t=1 log P ? ( y t |y <t , x ) ) ( 1 ) where y <t refers to {y 0 , y 1 , ... , y t?1 } , in which y 0 is set to a begin-of-sentence token < BOS >.
We consider two popular ways of decoding ( generating ) a sentence given an input : greedy decoding and sampling .
In practice for dialogue response generation , greedy decoding will provide stable and reproducible outputs , but is severely affected by the generic response problem .
Sampling will provide more diverse but less predictable responses , and thus give rise to the malicious response problem .
The Negative Training Framework
Overview
The negative training framework 3 is a two -stage process .
Given a trained model , we put it under a " debugging " environment P test which provides test input samples 4 , get the model 's decoded samples and decide ( using well - defined criteria ) whether each input-output pair exhibits some undesirable behavior .
Then , these " bad " pairs are used to provide negative training signals .
Negative training can be derived from Empirical Bayes Risk Minimization ( Och , 2003 ) .
Specifically , the overall objective is to minimize the expected risk that the model exhibits undesirable decoding behavior : L NEG ( P test ; ?) = E x?Ptest E y?P ? ( y|x ) c( x , y ) ( 2 ) where c( x , y ) refers to the binary criteria that will be 1 if ( x , y ) exhibits undesirable behavior , and 0 otherwise .
Then , we take the derivative of L NEG w.r.t. to ? , using the log derivative trick ( widely used in Reinforcement Learning ( Sutton and Barto , 1998 ) ) : ? ? L NEG ( P test ; ?) = E x?Ptest E y?P ? ( y|x ) c( x , y ) ? ? ? log P ? ( y|x ) ( 3 ) Compared to L MLE in eq. ( 1 ) , which maximizes the log-likelihood of training data samples , L NEG minimizes the log-likelihood of undesirable model samples .
This is the reason why we call it " Negative Training " .
In our preliminary experiments , we find that negative training needs to be augmented with the standard MLE objective L MLE , encouraging the model to retain its original performance : L NEG + POS = L NEG + ? POS L MLE ( 4 ) In our experiments , we find ?
POS can be simply set to 0.1 to work well .
In the next two sections , we discuss how the general negative training framework is tailored for the malicious response problem and frequent response problem , respectively .
Negative Training for the Malicious Response Problem
For the malicious response problem , we follow the methodology proposed by ( He and Glass , 2019 ) .
First a list of malicious target sentences are created , then the gibbs -enum algorithm 5 is called to find " trigger input " that will cause the model to assign large probability to the target sequence .
The following " hit types " are defined : ? o- greedy - hit : A trigger input sequence is found such that the model generates the target sentence from greedy decoding .
? o-sample-min / avg-hit :
A trigger input sequence is found such that the model generates the target sentence with an minimum / average word log-probability larger than a given threshold T out . ? io-sample-min/ avg-hit :
In addition to the definition of o-sample-min / avg - hit , we also require that the average log-likelihood of the trigger input sequence , measured by a LM , is larger than a threshold T in .
This enforces the trigger input to be more likely to be input by real-world users .
T out is set to the trained seq2seq model 's average word log-likelihood on the test data , and T in is set to be a reasonable LM 's 6 average word loglikelihood on the test set .
The intuition is that the model should not assign larger probabilities to the malicious sentences than the reference sentences in the test set .
Note that these hit types act as criteria c( x , y ) , indicating whether a target sentence is hit by a trigger input .
As shown in ( He and Glass , 2019 ) , a typical seq2seq model trained by MLE has around a 10 % hit rate for malicious targets w.r.t. samplemin / avg - hit , across data-sets .
However , very few malicious targets are hit w.r.t. greedy - hit , so in this work , we focus on the malicious response problem for sampling during decoding .
In Table 1 hit ( c( x trigger , y target ) = 1 ) , we update the model to reduce the log-likelihood P ? (y target | x trigger ) .
The process is formulated in Algorithm 1 7 .
For each trigger input , multiple iterations of negative updates are usually needed before the hit criterion is no longer met .
Note that in each iteration , the gibbs-enum algorithm is called again to find a new trigger input for each target .
In our experiments , we show that negative training effectively reduces the hit rate for malicious targets after each iteration , and eventually , the gibbsenum algorithm can no longer find trigger inputs for a large number of targets that were initially hits .
Negative Training for the Frequent Response Problem
The generic response problem ( Li et al. , 2016 ) for end-to - end dialogue response generation refers to the typical behavior of a MLE trained model , whereby the generated responses are mostly safe , boring or uninformative ( such as " i do n't know " or " good idea " ) .
However , it is difficult to invent an automatic criterion to determine whether a response is generic or not .
In this work , we focus on the frequent response problem , as a sub-problem of the generic response problem .
It refers to the behavior that a trained model generates exactly the same ( usually boring ) response , with a high frequency .
We propose to use a metric called max-ratio to measure how severe the frequent response problem is .
Given a test set and a decoding method , the model will generate a set of responses , and maxratio is defined to be the ratio of the most frequent response .
In our experiments , the baseline models have a max-ratio of around 0.3 for response like " I do n't know " across different data-sets , showing the severity of the frequent response problem .
During negative training for frequent response , first a threshold ratio r thres is selected ( such as 0.01 ) , and responses with frequency ratio larger than r thres will be discouraged .
For each iteration , the model 's response to each training data input sentence is monitored and responses with frequency larger than r thres will be used as negative examples .
The frequency statistics are calculated using the current and the last 200 mini-batches .
The procedure is formulated in Algorithm 2 .
Note that positive training is also needed here for the model to retain its original performance .
? = ? ? ? ? ? ? logP ? (y sample | x pos )
Positive update : ? = ? + ? ? ? POS ? ? ? logP ? ( y pos |x pos ) end if end for In our experiments , it is shown that negative training significantly reduces max-ratio for the model on test data , and greatly increases the diversity of the model 's responses .
Experiments
We conduct experiments on three publicly available conversational dialogue data-sets : Ubuntu , Switchboard , and OpenSubtitles .
To save space , descriptions of the data-sets are provided in Appendix B .
Baseline Model Training
For all data-sets , we first train an LSTM based LM and attention based seq2seq models with one hidden layer of size 600 , and the embedding size is set to 300 .
For Switchboard a dropout layer with rate 0.3 is added to the model because over-fitting is observed .
The mini- batch size is set to 64 and we apply SGD training with a fixed starting learning rate ( LR ) for 10 iterations , and then another 10 iterations with LR halving .
For Ubuntu and Switchboard , the starting LR is 1 , while a starting LR of 0.1 is used for OpenSubtitles .
The results are shown in Appendix C .
After negative training , in addition to measuring the hit rate for malicious targets or the diversity of the responses , it is also important to check whether the original sample quality of the baseline model is damaged .
Towards that end , the perplexity of the model before and after negative training will be compared , we also conduct human evaluation to measure whether the sample quality is decreased .
Other popular measurements , such as the BLEU score , have been found to correspond poorly with human judgements ( Liu et al. , 2016 ) .
Nevertheless , we also find that the model 's BLEU score does not become worse after negative training .
Experiments on the Malicious Response Problem Following ( He and Glass , 2019 )
In our experiments , we spotted a harmful side effect of negative training where frequent words in the training target list are severely penalized and sometimes receive low probability even in normal perplexity testing , especially for experiments with small ?
POS .
To alleviate this problem , we use a simple technique called frequent word avoiding ( FWA ) : negative gradients are not applied to the most frequent words in the malicious training target list 9 .
For example , when doing negative training against the target " i hate you < EOS > " , only " hate " will get a negative gradient .
For all data-sets , negative training ( Algorithm 1 ) is executed on the ( trained ) baseline model for 20 iterations over the training target list .
A fixed learning rate of 0.01 and a mini-batch size of 100 are used .
?
POS is set to 0.1 for Ubuntu , and to 1 for Switchboard and OpenSubtitles .
The main results are shown in Table 3 . For Switchboard we focus on sample - avg - hit because we find very few targets are hit w.r.t. samplemin-hit ( Similar results are reported in ( He and Glass , 2019 ) ) , while for Ubuntu and OpenSubtitles we focus on sample - min-hit .
Note that we get very similar results w.r .
Ubuntu / OpenSubtitles , and we omit those results here .
We first observe that , for all data-sets , negative training can effectively reduce the hit rate on the training target list to less than 5 % with little or no degradation on perplexity .
We provide a comparison of the model 's behavior in Appendix D. Also , significant hit rate reduction is achieved on the test target list , which has no overlap with the training target list .
This shows that negative training , similar to traditional positive training , also generalizes .
It is also shown that training list augmentation can further reduce the malicious target hit rate consistently for both training and test lists .
For example , on Ubuntu data , the hit rate after negative training w.r.t. o-sample-min-hit is 12.6 % , and can be reduced to 0 % with paraphrase augmentation .
We find that that the model 's generation behavior in non-adversarial setting is almost the same as the baseline after negative training .
For example , the 10 - best list from beam search before / after neg-train has larger than 90 % overlap .
We also find that the model generates similar samples ( shown in Appendix G ) .
We believe the reason is that negative training focuses on making the model more robust with the adversarial inputs , and the original generation behavior is kept intact by the positive training ( Equation 4 ) .
Experiments on the Frequent Response Problem
In this section we report results where the negative training framework ( Section 3.3 ) is applied to tackle the frequent response problem .
For all datasets , negative training is executed for 20 iterations on the MLE trained model over the training data , with a selected r thres .
A fixed learning rate of 0.001 is used for all three data-sets , the mini- batch size is set to 64 and ?
POS is set to 1 .
In this work , we focus on improving the model 's greedy decoding behavior instead of beam search for the following two reasons :
1 ) For the baseline models our experiments , we found that beam search gives far worse response diversity than greedy decoding , because it favors short responses ( usually only of length one ) too much , resulting in a much larger max-ratio ; 2 ) During training , doing beam search is much more time - consuming than greedy decoding .
To measure the diversity of the model 's generated responses , in addition to max-ratio introduced in Section 3.3 , which is specially design for the frequent response problem , we also adopt the entropy metric proposed in .
Given a set of responses from decoding on the test set , Ent -n calculates the entropy of the n-gram distribution : Ent -n = g?Gn ?r( g ) log r( g ) ( 5 ) where G n is the set of all n-grams that appeared in the response set , and r( g ) refers to the ratio ( frequency ) of n-gram g w.r.t. all n-grams in the responses set .
In our experiments with negative training , a harmful side-effect is spotted : during decoding , the model tends to output long and ungrammatical responses such as " i do n't know if it 's a real valid deterrent crime crime yeah i 'm satisfied trying not to " .
We believe the reason is that the sentence end token < EOS > gets over penalized during negative training ( it appears in every negative example ) .
So , we apply the same frequent word avoiding ( FWA ) technique used in Section 4.2 , except that here only the negative gradient for < EOS > is scaled by 0.1 10 .
In addition to the baseline model , we compare our proposed negative training framework against a 10 We find that scal by zero will result in extremely short responses .
GAN ( Goodfellow et al. , 2014a ) approach , where a discriminator D is introduced and the generator G tries to fool the discriminator to believe its samples are real data samples :
Ubuntu min G max D V ( D , G ) = min G max D { E ( x, y ) ?
P data log D ( x , y ) + E x?P data , y?G ( ?| x ) log ( 1 ? D ( x , y ) ) } ( 6 ) where the generator G refers to the seq2seq model P ? .
The GAN framework is very attractive for tackling the generic response problem ( Li et al. , 2017 ; , because the discriminator can act as a critic to judge whether a response sample is boring .
We describe the training details and hyper-parameter setting for the GAN approach in Appendix E .
We also provide an comparison to the MMI decoding ( Li et al. , 2016 ) , which is a very popular work in this field .
We implement MMI - antiLM for our models .
The experimental results are shown in Table 4 .
The experiment with best diversity result and nondegenerate sample quality are shown in bold .
We first observe a large gap on the diversity measures between the baseline models and the test set , especially on Switchboard and OpenSubtitles data .
That indicates the severity of the frequent / generic response problem .
Then , results of negative training with different r thres show that negative training can significantly increase response diversity , with little or no loss on PPL or BLEU score ( shown in Appendix F ) performance .
For example , maxratio is reduced by 73.7 % and Ent - 3 is increased by 149 % for Switchboard data .
Further , consistent improvement is achieved when a smaller r thres is used .
However , sample quality will decrease ( becoming too long or ungrammatical ) when r thres is too small .
The reason could be that when too much diversity is asked for , the model will go to extremes to provide diversity , resulting in degradation of sample quality .
Comparing to MMI , note that although on Switchboard / Opensubtitles MMI gives higher entropy , the max-ratio is not as low as the negative training result , which is the main focus of our work ( the frequent response problem ) .
We also find MMIs hyper-parameters are difficult to tune : the working set of hyper-parameters dont transfer well between data-sets .
Further , for MMI in a lot of configuration tries the model gives ungrammatical output samples ( this is problem is also mentioned in the paper ( Li et al. , 2016 ) ) .
For the Ubuntu data , we can not even find a configuration that performs better than the baseline model .
Further , the vanilla GAN approach is not shown to be effective in our experiments .
The reason could be that despite its discriminative nature , GAN training still feeds " positive " gradient for samples from the model ( eq. ( 11 ) and eq. ( 12 ) in Appendix E ) , which is not enough to prevent the model from generating them .
We believe additional techniques Li et al. , 2017 ) are needed for the GAN approach to be effective .
We show some model samples before and after negative training in Table 5 .
It is shown that negative training effectively discourages boring responses , and response diversity is improved .
However , one limitation is observed that diversity does not necessarily lead to improvement on the informativeness of the response w.r.t. the input ( sometimes the model generates a completely unrelated response ) .
More samples for all three data-sets are included in Appendix G .
To rigorously verify negative training is not getting diversity when sacrificing the sample 's quality , a human evaluation is conducted and results are shown in Table 6 .
It is observed that negative training wins by a significant margin for all three data-sets .
This shows that , negative training does not damage the quality of the generated samples .
Note that the human evaluation does not reflect the diversity of the model , because the raters only rate one response at a time .
Related Works
The malicious response problem and the gibbsenum algorithm to find trigger inputs ( He and Glass , 2019 ) originates from a large body of work on adversarial attacks for deep learning models , with continuous input space ( e.g. image classification ) ( Goodfellow et al. , 2014 b ; Szegedy et al. , 2013 ) seq2seq models ) ( Papernot et al. , 2016 ; Samanta and Mehta , 2017 ; Liang et al. , 2018 ; Ebrahimi et al. , 2017 ; Belinkov and Bisk , 2017 ; Chen et al. , 2017 ) .
" Adversarial attacks " refer to the phenomenon that when an imperceptible perturbation is applied to the input , the output of the model can change significantly ( from correct to incorrect ) .
The trigger inputs found by the gibbs-enum algorithm , can be regarded as a type of " targeted attack " , in which the attack triggers the model to assign large probability to a specific malicious target sentence .
Motivated by the works on adversarial attacks , various adversarial training strategies ( Madry et al. , 2017 ; Belinkov and Bisk , 2017 ; Miyato et al. , 2016 ) have been proposed to make trained models more robust against those attacks .
During adversarial training , the model is fed with adversarial examples and the correct labels .
The negative training framework considered in this work differs from adversarial training in that , instead of asking the model to " do the right thing " ( referred to as " positive training " in this work ) , the model is trained to " not do the wrong thing " .
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first work investigating the concept of negative training for dialogue response models , and the first proposed solution for the malicious response problem .
The malicious target list used in this work is very similar to the one used in ( He and Glass , 2019 ) .
We propose to add a test target list to test the generalization of negative training .
Further , we show that the training list can be effectively augmented by utilizing a paraphrase model .
In this work , we propose a definition for the frequent response problem , as a sub-problem of the generic response problem ( Li et al. , 2016 ) .
Much research work has devoted to alleviate the generic response problem in end-to - end dialogue response generation , ( Li et al. , 2016 ) use the maximal mutual information ( MMI ) objective , and propose to utilize an auxiliary LM to penalize the generic response during decoding .
Closely related to this work , sophisticated training frameworks based on GAN Li et al. , 2017 ) have also been shown to be effective , where techniques such as variational information maximization or reward for every generation step ( REGS ) are proposed to improve GAN training .
However , in our experiments it is shown that a vanilla GAN approach gives unsatisfactory results .
Whether negative training 11 is complementary to these frameworks is worth investigating in future work .
Finally , note that the concept of negative training in this work is very different to the negative samples in word2vec training ( Mikolov et al. , 2013 ) .
The negative samples in word2vec training are used to prevent the training from being trivial , and is usually chosen randomly .
In this work , the negative samples are carefully chosen to exhibit some particular undesirable behavior of the model , and is then used to correct such behavior .
Conclusion
In this work , we propose the negative training framework to correct undesirable behaviors of a trained neural dialogue response generator .
The algorithm involves two major steps , first input-output pairs that exhibit bad behavior are identified , and then are used for fine-tuning the model as negative training examples .
We also show that negative training can be derived from an overall objective ( eq. ( 2 ) ) to minimize the expected risk of undesirable behaviors .
In our experiments , we apply negative training to the malicious response problem and the frequent response problem and get significant improvement for both problems .
