title


abstract


Preface We are excited (and a little relieved) to present the proceedings from the 2019 Shared Task on Cross-Framework Meaning Representation Parsing (MRP) at the Conference for Computational Language  Learning (CoNLL) . This volume provides linguistic, methodological, and technical background to the target representations, mode of operation, and participating systems in a 'system bake-off' for datadriven parsing into graph-structured representations of sentence meaning. The task received submissions from eighteen teams, of which two involved task co-organizers and do not participate in the official ranking of submissions. Three teams declined the invitation to submit a system description for publication in the proceedings, such that the volume in total comprises an indepth task overview, two 'system descriptions' by task co-organizers, and thirteen system descriptions by task participants. All system descriptions were reviewed by at least three experts, drawing from among the task participants and an external pool of colleagues working in meaning representation parsing. We much look forward to the presentation of results and meeting with task participants in person at CoNLL in early November 2019. The conference has allocated a 90-minute slot for oral presentations from the shared task, where all teams will have the opportunity to present a 'blitz' overview of their work. Following this plenary session, there will be poster presentations by all teams, allowing for more detailed technical discussions. The shared task has been an intensive experience for organizers and participants alike, with data preparation, definition of evaluation metrics, system development, submission of parser outputs, scoring and compilation of the task proceedings-running near-continuously between March and October 2019. We are deeply grateful to all participants (including several who in the end did not make a submission) for the time and effort they have invested in system development and documentation. With no less than five distinct linguistic frameworks for graph-based meaning representation combined for the first time in a uniform training and evaluation setting, this was not an easy competition to enter. As coorganizers of the MRP 2019 competition, we will continue to work on facilitating cross-framework meaning representation parsing and enabling participants to further build on their work. We are delighted (and a litte scared) to confirm that there will be a follow-up shared task MRP 2020 at the next CoNLL meeting a year from now. Many colleagues have made essential contributions to the task organization along the way. We gratefully acknowledge assistance by Emily M. Bender, Jayeol Chun, Dan Flickinger, Andrey Kutuzov, Sebastian Schuster, Milan Straka, and Zde?ka Ure?ov?. Oslo, Jerusalem, Prague, Copenhagen, Link?ping, Boulder, and Brandeis; October 2019 Stephan Oepen, Omri Abend, Jan Haji?, Daniel Hershcovich, Marco Kuhlmann, Tim O'Gorman, and Nianwen Xue
