title
C1 at SemEval-2020 Task 9: SentiMix: Sentiment Analysis for Code-Mixed Social Media Text using Feature Engineering

abstract
In today's interconnected and multilingual world, code-mixing of languages on social media is a common occurrence. While many Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks like sentiment analysis are mature and well designed for monolingual text, techniques to apply these tasks to code-mixed text still warrant exploration. This paper describes our feature engineering approach to sentiment analysis in code-mixed social media text for SemEval-2020 Task 9: SentiMix. We tackle this problem by leveraging a set of hand-engineered lexical, sentiment, and metadata features to design a classifier that can disambiguate between "positive", "negative" and "neutral" sentiment. With this model we are able to obtain a weighted F1 score of 0.65 for the "Hinglish" task and 0.63 for the "Spanglish" tasks.

Introduction Social media has grown exponentially in the last decade and has given rise to multilingual online communication and the consumption of media. Code Mixing is the phenomenon of embedding linguistic units such as phrases, words, or morphemes of one language into an utterance of another. Code mixing is prevalent in online discourse, where bilingual speakers mix English with their native language. For instance, bilingual speakers of Hindi and Spanish languages, which are the 3rd and 4th most spoken languages in the world respectively, frequently mix English with Hindi and Spanish in spoken language as well as online social media. The growing presence of "Hinglish" and "Spanglish" in social media is evidence that this is a growing area of research as traditional NLP tasks like sentiment analysis heavily rely on monolingual resources. While there are many cutting edge techniques to apply common NLP tasks to monolingual text, the task of sentiment analysis, in particular, has not been explored for multilingual code-mixed texts. Conventional NLP tools make use of monolingual resources to operate on code-mixed text, which limits them to properly handle issues like word-level code-mixing. Additionally, code-mixed texts typically exist on social media which has a conjunction of other features like incorrect spelling, use of slang, and abbreviations to name a few. While code-mixing is an active area of research, correctly annotated data is still scarce. It is particularly difficult to mine a small subset of tweets that may or may not be code-mixed and then apply a sentiment score to them. The organizers have solved this by releasing around 20,000 tweets  (Patwa et al., 2020)  with unique sentiment scores and word-level tagging of the language. For evaluation and ranking, the organizers used a weighted F1 score across "positive", "negative" and "neutral" classes. While deep learning techniques are state of the art for this task, the contribution of this paper is to demonstrate how content-rich features, when applied to a classifier, can give us strong and comparable results. Some of the features we explore are lexical features like n-grams, metadata features like word frequency, and sentiment-based features like profanity count. 

 Related Work Code-Mixed Sentiment Analysis is an active field of research. For monolingual sentiment analysis, Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) and other more complex deep learning models have been successful.  Socher et al. (2013)  gave us a significant breakthrough by using compositional vector representations. With regards to Hindi-English Sentiment Analysis, the shared task  SAIL-2015 (Patra et al., 2015  reported accuracies of different systems submitted on sentiment analysis for tweets in three major Indian languages: Hindi, Bengali, and Tamil. Recently  Joshi et al. (2016)  released a dataset sourced from Facebook and proposed a deep learning approach to Hindi-English Sentiment extraction. A variety of traditional learning algorithms like Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machines and Decision Trees were applied to this dataset. The winning algorithm from the SAIL-2015 shared task was a Naive Bayes based system. More recent work by  Hashimoto et al. (2017)  involves a hierarchical multitask neural architecture with the lower layers performing syntactic tasks, and the higher layers performing the more involved semantic tasks while using the lower layer predictions. For the Hinglish dataset, the organizers have released a total of 20,000 manually labeled tweets with 14,000 being in the training dataset, 3,000 being part of the validation dataset and 3,000 being part of a holdout test dataset. Additionally, for the Spanglish dataset, they released 12,002 tweets for the training dataset, 2,998 tweets for the validation dataset and 3,788 tweets for the test dataset. To ensure the accuracy of the dataset labels, the organizers employ a semi-automatic annotation methodology. They initially use word-level identifiers and then baseline sentiment analysis to obtain the initial labels. Subsequently, manual evaluation is done by at least two annotators, tweets with low confidence are discarded. While this seems to be a robust system in some cases the word tags are incorrect with words like 'Maybe' being tagged as a Hindi word, when we can safely assume that it is from the English language. Additionally, the dataset contains URLs, hashtags, usernames and emoticons. The average length for tweets in the "Hinglish" dataset is 26 tokens and 15 tokens for the "Spanglish" dataset. Table  1  shows us two examples from the "Hinglish" and "Spanglish" datasets made available for this task. For both subtasks the organizers provided labeled trial, train and validation datasets for developing candidate models. The data was provided in the CONLL format with each tweet having a sentiment of "positive", "negative" or "neutral". Figure  1  gives us an overview of the class distribution of these datasets. As we can see the "Spanglish" dataset is unbalanced with the majority of the samples being in the "positive" and "neutral" datasets. From the examples in Table  1  we can see that the organizers have also provided word level information, with the classes Eng (English), Es (Spanish), Hin (Hindi), mixed, and univ (e.g., universal symbols, @ mentions, hashtags).  

 Methodology We extracted different hand engineered features like word n-grams, sentiment polarity, punctuation frequency, word frequency, emoji frequency and profanity level from tweets. We weighed n-gram features using their term frequency -inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) scores. We then built a Logistic Regression classification model using Scikit-learn  (Pedregosa et al., 2011)  library. 

 Pre-processing Prior to using the datasets we explored a variety of pre-processing techniques to reduce the noise in the data as they are obtained from online social media and include additional textual features. We used the following pre-processing techniques. ? Abbreviation Expansion: In many cases users on online social media tend to use informal slang and abbreviations. For instance, we expanded common abbreviations like "DM" to "direct message" using the Python regular expression library. ? Repetition: As communication on social media websites is informal, there are cases where letters in words are repeated such as "heelloo". We normalize these words by using the Python regular expressions library. ? Usernames and Handles: We use the Python regular expression library to develop a manually defined function to remove user handles for example (@Matt), URLs (https:twitter.com) and similar links to external images. 

 Hand-crafted Features We explored and used different hand-crafted features to build our machine learning model. Our handcrafted features are described below: ? Lexical Features: We extracted word n-grams (n = 1, 2, 3) from the tweets as they are strong lexical representations  (Cavnar et al., 1994; McNamee and Mayfield, 2004; Sureka and Jalote, 2010) . A word n-gram is simply a sequence of n words, for example "hello again" is a bi-gram or 2-gram. ? Sentiment Lexicon Features: We extracted the sentiment polarity for English language tokens using Valence Aware Dictionary and sEntiment Reasoner (VADER)  (Hutto and Gilbert, 2015) . VADER is a lexicon and rule-based sentiment analysis tool that is specifically attuned to sentiments expressed in social media. This feature provides strong clues about the sentiment of the tweets by explicitly discriminating "positive" or "negative" words in the tweet. ? Emoji Features: Emoji are frequently used in online discourse and give us a hint about the tone of the tweets. We used a rule-based dictionary to formalize their polarity as "happy", "sad", and "neutral". We constructed this lexicon using the Emoji Sentiment Ranking (Kralj  Novak et al., 2015) . ? Profanity Features: Profane words are correlated with negative connotations. We used the presence or absence of profane words as a feature to discriminate between the three classes. ? Tweet Metadata Features: Finally we looked into using metadata about the tweet. We extracted repetition, punctuation count, and length and used them as features. 

 Experimental Setup We used the training and validation splits for Spanglish and Hinglish datasets to build our final classifier. We experimented with standard machine learning classifiers like Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines, Random Forests with our hand-crafted features defined in Section 4.2. We tuned the C hyperparameter of the Logistic Regression and Support Vector Machine using an extensive grid search over the range of values {10e ?2 , . . . , 10} on the validation dataset. For our final model, we used the best hyperparameter value on the validation dataset. After a number of trials by using a step size of 0.01 we found that 0.9 was the best value to use as it gave us the best results. Additionally, based on the size and type of the data we selected the "Liblinear" solver, which works in a one vs. rest fashion for multi-class tasks. Moreover, we ran experiments using deep learning models. For deep learning models, we used BERT  (Devlin et al., 2019) , ELMo  (Peters et al., 2018) , and GloVe  (Pennington et al., 2014)  embeddings to initialize the embedding layer, Bidirectional Gated Recurrent Units  (Cho et al., 2014)  for sequence to sequence encoding, and used self-attention  (Lin et al., 2017)  to reduce the sequence of encoded vectors to a single vector for representing the tweet. The tweet representations were then used for classification. Additionally, we used the Adam optimizer to train our deep neural network. To select our top candidate we evaluated these models based on the F1 score. Table  2  shows us the results of a variety of classification models applied to the Hinglish and Spanglish validation datasets. As we can see the "Logistic Regression" model performed the best giving us a F1 score of 0.58 for the Hinglish validation dataset and 0.55 for the Spanglish validation dataset. It is interesting to see that the use of traditional hand-engineered features performed better than the state of the art deep learning approaches. We suspect that the limited amount of data negatively affects deep learning approaches and makes it conducive to use linear classification models. As a result, we chose to use the "Logistic Regression" classifier on the final dataset. 

 Results and Analysis After the release of the test dataset, we merged the training dataset with the validation dataset and trained our model with the best hyperparameters. For the Hinglish test dataset, we got a significantly higher score of 0.65, which matches the organizer baseline of 0.65. Additionally, for the Spanglish dataset, we got a score of 0.63 which is a lower than the organizer baseline of 0.65. 

 Error Analysis 

 Text Gold Prediction Kameeny loogo ko justice system sy wessy he nikal deena chaheye khud dafa hona bhi theek hy . 

 Negative Negative Dear all of every one so I am help you me Vishnu Sharma gwalior madhyapradesh se hoo My mere teen better he Jo.  Table  3  shows us some of the label predictions from the dataset. In many cases, words associated with profanity and emoticons help the model decide between classes like positive and negative but these do not help the model distinguish between "neutral" and "positive" or "negative" tweets as we do not have a list of words specific to a "neutral" class. As we can see in the third row in Table  3  our model gives us an insight into incorrectly classified results. The model gives us a prediction of "Neutral" where the true label is "Negative". As seen in the last row of Table  3  when the tweet is ambiguous the emoji contributes significantly to the prediction. In this case, our prediction is "Positive" but the gold label is "Negative". We suspect the presence of emoji with positive polarity signaled the model to predict "Positive" label. While this is an incorrect prediction we can perhaps infer that the dataset has incorrectly labeled samples. 

 Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we demonstrated our system for performing sentiment analysis on code-mixed tweets. We used a variety of lexical, metadata, and sentiment-based features. We used a Logistic Regression Classifier with these features to classify the tweets as "positive", "negative" and "neutral". We demonstrate how a lightweight and memory-efficient model with prior extracted features can be competitive with state of the art Language Models. In the future, we would look into combining hand-engineered lexical, sentiment, and metadata features with the representations learned from Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Bidirectional Gated Recurrent Unit (Bi-GRU) having attention model applied on top  (Kar et al., 2017) . Recent developments in NLP research have pointed to the combination of deep learning representations as a strong approach to gain better results. Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1: Categorical Label Frequency in Hinglish and Spanglish Training Dataset. 

 Table 1 : 1 Sample Annotation Examples for Hinglish and Spanglish Dataset 3 Dataset Word Word Tag Word Word Tag @ O Nobody Eng nsfw Hin can Eng _ O make Eng hs Hin gabby NE Maybe Hin laugh Eng I'll Eng like Eng faing Eng I Eng and Eng do Eng I Eng O won't Eng asta Es feel Eng parece Es a Eng mongolita Es thing Eng lmao Eng . O 

 Table 2 : 2 Model Results for Hinglish and Spanglish Validation dataset Model Hinglish F1 Score Spanglish F1 score Logistic Regression 0.58 0.55 Support Vector Machines 0.49 0.50 Feed-forward Networks 0.56 0.53 Random Forest 0.48 0.46 BERT Language Model 0.56 0.48 GloVe + ELMo Language Model 0.56 0.54 Organizer Baseline 0.58 0.49 

 Table 3 : 3 Sample Predictions from the Hinglish Validation Dataset
