title
COMMIT at SemEval-2016 Task 5: Sentiment Analysis with Rhetorical Structure Theory

abstract
This paper reports our submission to the Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis task of Se-mEval 2016. It covers the prediction of sentiment for a given set of aspects (e.g., subtask 1, slot 2) for the English language using discourse analysis. To that end, a discourse parser implementing the Rhetorical Structure Theory is employed and the resulting information is used to determine the context of each aspect, as well as to compute the expressed sentiment in that context by weighing the discourse relations between words. While discourse analysis yields high level linguistic information that can be used to better predict sentiment, the proposed algorithm does not yet stack up to the high-performing machine learning approaches that are commonly exploited for this task.

Introduction With sentiment analysis being at the forefront of research, many avenues are explored to find that one new algorithm that will outperform all others. This drive towards excellence is of no surprise given the high practical value this type of algorithms have and the added value they can yield for businesses and consumers alike. This is especially true for aspectlevel sentiment analysis, where sentiment scores are assigned, not to a document or sentence, but to the various characteristics, or aspects, of the entity under consideration. Such a fine-grained analysis of, for instance, products or services, can provide many useful insights into consumer thinking. The majority of the algorithms for aspect-level sentiment analysis is centered around the use of a machine learning classifier and involves tasks such as feature construction and parameter estimation. While the past has shown that this kind of algorithms have strong performance, other directions are also explored  (Schouten and Frasincar, 2016) . One of these is the concept-driven approach  (Cambria et al., 2015) , which functions at the semantic level, built upon a layer of natural language processing components. Another direction, which is the research we describe here, is using discourse analysis to improve sentiment classification. Discourse analysis looks at how the various text segments interact with each other. For example, in "So even though this laptop is ugly, bulky and way overpriced, I still like it.", the first half of the sentence gives an explanation for the second part of the sentence. As illustrated in the above example, knowing which parts of the text are ancillary and which parts of the text form the core of the sentence can play a vital role in classifying sentiment. In this case, the sentiment for the laptop in general is positive, even though all of the discussed aspects are negative. Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST)  (Mann and Thompson, 1988)  describes the various discourse units and their relations, and multiple RST parsers exist that can extract these discourse elements  (Marcu, 1997; Surdeanu et al., 2015) . This research shows how one can use RST to classify aspect sentiment. The basic principles of RST are explained in Section 2. The following section showcases some related work on RST, while Section 4 describes how our pipeline is set up. The algorithm is evaluated in Section 5, followed by conclusions and future work in Section 6. 

 Rhetorical Structure Theory When performing an RST analysis, the text is first split into clauses, which are called elementary discourse units (EDUs). These clauses form the basic building blocks of the discourse tree. The RST parser then postulates relations between the EDUs, selecting them from a predefined list of discourse relations. There are two basic types of relations: mononuclear and multinuclear relations. The former connects two discourse elements where one element is supporting the other, whereas the latter connects two or more discourse elements that do not have such a clear division of roles. For example, in 'I've only had mine a day but I'm already used to it...', the part before 'but' is ancillary and is called the satellite. It supports the second clause, which is called the nucleus, by setting up a contrast. An example of a multinuclear relation is 'It is in the best condition and has a really high quality.' In this sentence, both elements are nuclei since none of them is specifically supporting the other and they are on the same level instead. EDUs that are linked by a discourse relation together form a new clause that can be linked to another clause again. In this way, a hierarchical structure, which is called the discourse tree, can be formed that spans a whole document. In  This is also true for the approach taken in  (Heerschop et al., 2011) , which uses the same split between words in a nucleus or words in a satellite. Additionally, they take the rhetorical relations these EDUs are in, into account. One of the outcomes of this research is that certain relations are more important for sentiment analysis than others. Hence, words that are in a EDU with an important relation should have a higher influence on the sentiment analysis than others. Another interesting idea was that some EDUs are in a contrasting relation and sentiment scores for words in these EDUs should be negated or flipped. In the described experiments, F 1 increased with 15% compared to a baseline because of the exploitation of discourse information. Note that this approach performs sentiment analysis at the sentence level, while we are applying discourse analysis for aspect-level sentiment analysis. Being closer to aspect-level, the method described in  (Zirn et al., 2011)  applies RST at the sub-sentence or clause level embedding it inside a Markov Logic Chain. The research mainly focuses on finding relations that negate the sentiment of a certain clause since this has a high impact on the total sentiment score. Compared to a Support Vector Machine baseline, the employed model shows a significant improvement. 

 Framework In order to apply RST for aspect-level sentiment analysis, the discourse context of an aspect has to be defined first, since this varies from aspect to aspect. Fortunately, we can exploit the discourse tree to select the relevant parts of the text with respect to a given aspect. Knowing the relevant parts of the sentence, the sentiment can be computed by having different weights on the various discourse relations and multiplying the sentiment scores for individual words through the relevant parts of the discourse tree, aggregating the partial scores to one final score that determines the sentiment class. The first step consists of finding the leaf node(s) in the discourse tree that cover a given aspect. For explicit aspects, the exact position within the sentence is known (i.e., with the from and to values) , so determining the relevant EDU is straightforward. Sometimes, an aspect spans multiple EDUs. This is the case for some explicit aspects and for all implicit aspects, since the latter do not have a specific target (i.e., target is NULL and from and to are zero). When multiple EDUs are returned by this step, the following steps are performed for each EDU, and the final results are aggregated at the end. Since satellites are complementing the information presented in the nuclei, it stands to reason that, when determining the sentiment of an aspect that is described in a nucleus, we also utilize the information in the satellite that supports that nucleus. On the other hand, when an aspect is described in a satellite, we do not need to include the information of its nucleus since nuclei do not add information to satellites. This information asymmetry helps us to define the context of an aspect. We can look at the discourse tree and, starting at the leaf containing the aspect, move up the tree. As long as we are encountering nuclei we need to go higher because the related satellites need to be included in the context. Hence, as soon as we arrive at a satellite node, that node will be the root of the context tree, since its related nucleus does not need to be included because of the reasons specified before. For the example in Figure  1 , since the aspect 'OS' is in a nucleus, we go up to include its elaborating satellite, thereby arriving in a satellite node. Since the first encountered satellite node will be the root node of the context tree, we will not move up the discourse tree any further. With the context tree available, each word is assigned a sentiment score, using the Stanford Senti-ment Tool  (Socher et al., 2013) . The sentiment values are then combined using Formula 1. 

 sent(s i ) = t j ?s i sent(t j ) ? rn?Ps i w rn , ?s i ? S a . (1) where S a is the set of leaf nodes of the context tree for aspect a, sent(s i ) is the sentiment score corresponding to leaf node s i ? S, and P s i denotes all edges on the path from the root node of the context tree to leaf node s i . Furthermore, sent(t j ) is the sentiment score for word t j ? s i and w rn denotes the weight associated with the rhetorical role of edge r n . These weights are obtained by running a Genetic Algorithm, optimizing for accuracy. In the final step, all of the sent(s i ) values for a given aspect are added to arrive at a final sentiment score for each aspect, as shown in Formula 2. sent(s a ) = s i ?Sa sent(s i ) (2) To map the sentiment score of an aspect to a class label, we use a threshold to make the distinction between positive and negative classes. As suggested in  (Heerschop et al., 2011) , we compute the average sentiment score for all aspects that are positive as well as for all aspects that are negative. The threshold is then set as the mean of those two values. This helps to avoid the sentiment bias in reviews. Note than in its current form, the algorithm is only capable of assigning a positive or a negative sentiment class to an aspect. Hence all neutral aspects will be misclassified. 

 Implementation Notes The above framework is implemented using the Stanford CoreNLP  (Manning et al., 2014)  pipeline, including the already mentioned sentiment component  (Socher et al., 2013) , together with the CLU-LAB  (Surdeanu et al., 2015)  discourse parser. 

 Evaluation The evaluation is performed on a previously unseen test set by the organizers of the task. For a description of the used data sets, we refer to the task description paper  (Pontiki et al., 2016) . The results of this evaluation are shown in Table  1 . The proposed algorithm is limited to predicting the senti-  ment value only (i.e., slot 3 for subtask 1) and only operates on English. 

 Restaurants Laptops In-sample 79.1% 77.3% 10-fold cross-validation 76.1% 71.8% Official test data 71.8% 67.5% Table  1 : Results of the proposed algorithm on the two considered datasets. Note that the official results on the restaurant data set are slightly higher than in the official ranking due to a few parsing errors with HTML entities in the submitted file. As can be seen in Table  1 , the algorithm suffers from overfitting, which is caused by optimizing the weights of the various RST relation types. Interestingly, the positive class of the restaurants dataset appears to be unaffected by this overfitting, as its performance on the cross-validated training data is only 2% lower than the in-sample accuracy. This is in stark contrast to the negative class, which suffers a sharp decrease in performance when going from in-sample to cross-validation. However, even comparing the cross-validation results with the test data shows a gap in performance. This can be due to a number of reasons, where it is most likely that the test data is slightly different in terms of language usage than the training data. Looking at the precision and recall scores for the positive and negative class in Figures  2 and 3 , we can see that on the restaurants data, the negative class is poorly predicted, with both a low precision and a low recall. The positive class, however, is performing only slightly worse than on the training data, with the biggest hit taken on the precision. For the laptops data, the situation is different. Here, both the positive and the negative class have a slightly higher recall than precision on the training data. Looking the test data, however, shows that the algorithm predicts too many negative aspects, as the precision for the negative class plummets, but the recall stays roughly the same. For the positive class, the reverse is true: since it only predicts positive in a limited number of cases, the precision is high, but recall is much lower than on the training data. Negative comments are more difficult to find, as evidenced by the shown performance scores, because of the greater range of expressions used for negative expressions. For example, besides using words with a known negative sentiment, people can express themselves using sarcasm or by describing some aspect and letting the reader conclude that that is sub-par. 

 Conclusions This research shows how Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) can be used for aspect-level sentiment analysis. Using discourse information when determining sentiment allows certain parts of the text to be stressed while others can be diminished in influence with respect to the sentiment computation. Optimizing the weights of the various relations with a Genetic Algorithm unfortunately leads to overfitting, reducing its effectiveness. Furthermore, we hypothesize that the rather straightforward way of multiplying sentiment through the context tree might be too simplistic. Hence, our suggestions for future work are to limit overfitting of the relation weights and to look for a more sophisticated approach to combining the sentiment scores within the context tree. A good avenue for future research is to investigate the dependence of RST methods on language usage, since the laptop data and restaurant data show such a different result when comparing in-sample and out-of-sample performance. Determining the context tree is also a subject for future research, as we have not yet tried a full range of possibilities. Last, embedding the discourse information in a classifier like Support Vector Machines is worthy of investigation to see the effect of combining high level linguistic information with the power of statistical inference. Figure  1, the discourse tree is shown for the following example.'Being a PC user my whole life, it's taking a bit of time to adapt to the OS of a Mac but I 'm finding my way around.' 

 Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1: Full discourse tree of a simple review sentence (the curved lines denote a mononuclear relation between a nucleus and a satellite). 

 Figure 2 : 2 Figure 2: Results on the restaurants data, specified per sentiment class. 

 Figure 3 : 3 Figure 3: Results on the laptops data, specified per sentiment class. 

			 Related WorkOne of the first approaches that applies RST to sentiment analysis is (Taboada et al., 2008) . This work suggests to rank words within a satellite EDU differently from words that are within a nucleus EDU. Even such a simple use of discourse information already leads to a higher performance of their framework. Note that because only EDUs are used, this method only exploits information from the leafs of the discourse tree.BACKGROUND Being a PC user my whole life, ? ENABLEMENT
