title
CIS-positive: Combining Convolutional Neural Networks and SVMs for Sentiment Analysis in Twitter

abstract
This paper describes our automatic sentiment analysis system -CIS-positive -for SemEval 2015 Task 10 "Sentiment Analysis in Twitter", subtask B "Message Polarity Classification". In this system, we propose to normalize the Twitter data in a way that maximizes the coverage of sentiment lexicons and minimizes distracting elements. Furthermore, we integrate the output of Convolutional Neural Networks into Support Vector Machines for the polarity classification. Our system achieves a macro F 1 score of the positive and negative class of 59.57 on the SemEval 2015 test data.

Introduction On the Internet, text containing different forms of sentiment appears everywhere. Mining this information supports many types of interest groups. Companies, for instance, are interested in user feedback about the advantages and drawbacks of their products. Users want to read short reviews or ratings of hotels they want to book for their next vacation. Politicians try to predict the outcome of the next presidential election. An automatic sentiment analysis system can support all these different requirements. One source of these types of information covering many domains and topics is the social networking service Twitter. Its popularity and the users' productivity in creating new text makes it an interesting research topic. However, Twitter introduces specific challenges as we will see next. In general, automatic sentiment analysis is challenging due to many different factors, such as ambiguous word senses, context dependency, sarcasm, etc. Specific properties of Twitter text make this task even more challenging. The limit of 140 character per message leads to countless acronyms and abbreviations. Moreover, the vast majority of tweets is of informal character and contains intentional miss-spellings and wrong use of grammar. Hence, the out-of-vocabulary (OOV) rate of Twitter text is rather high, which leads to information loss. One of the SemEval 2015 shared tasks -Task 10: Sentiment Analysis in Twitter -addresses these challenges  (Rosenthal et al., 2015) . We participated in Subtask B the "Message Polarity Classification" task. The goal is to predict the polarity of a given tweet into positive, negative, or neutral. The task organizers provided tweet IDs and corresponding labels to have a common ground for training polarity classification systems. More information about the task, its other subtasks as well as information about how the data was selected can be found in  (Rosenthal et al., 2015) . In this paper, we present our sentiment analysis system for SemEval 2015 -Task 10. Our system addresses the above mentioned challenges in two ways. First, we normalize the text to maximize the coverage of sentiment lexicons and minimize distracting elements such as user names or URLs. Second, we combine deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and support vector machines (SVM) for a better overall classification. The motivation of using CNNs is to extract not only local features but also context to predict sentiment. Integrating CNN output into an SVM improves classification. 

 Data Preprocessing Twitter texts are challenging and differ from other domains in some specific properties. Due to the 140 characters limit of tweet length, users make heavy use of abbreviations and acronyms. This leads to a high OOV rate and makes tasks like tokenizing, part-of-speech (POS) tagging, and lexicon search more difficult. Furthermore, special tokens such as user mentions (e.g., "@isar"), urls, hashtags (e.g., "#happy"), and punctuation sequences like "!?!?" are often utilized. Therefore, normalization of all tweets is necessary to facilitate later polarity classification. Our text preprocessing pipeline can be described as follows: Tweets are first tokenized and POS tagged with the CMU tokenizer and tagger  (Owoputi et al., 2013) . This tagger is specialized for Twitter and therefore superior to other general domain taggers. Afterwards, all user mentions are replaced by "<user>" and all urls by "<web>", because they do not provide any cues of polarity. We do not replace hashtags, because they often contain valuable information such as topics or even sentiment. Punctuation sequences like "!?!?" can act as exaggeration or other polarity modifier. However, the sheer amount of possible sequences increases the OOV rate dramatically. Therefore, all sequences of punctuations are replaced by a list of distinct punctuations in this sequence (e.g., "!?!?" is replaced by "[!?]"). That reduces the OOV rate and still keeps most of the information.  showed that sentiment lexicons are crucial for achieving good polarity classification. Unfortunately, miss-spellings and elongated surface forms of sentiment-bearing tokens, such as "cooooolllll", lead to lower coverage of all sentiment lexicons. Since elongated words often convey sentiment  (Brody and Diakopoulos, 2011) , we carefully normalize them in the following way. First, all elongated words are identified by searching for tokens that contain a sequence of at least three equal characters. Afterwards, for each elongated word a candidate set is created by removing the repeated character one by one until only one occurrence is left. If a word contains several repeated character sequences, all combinations are taken as candidates. For instance, the candidate set of the word "cooolll" will be {coolll, colll, cooll, coll, cool, col}. We then search every candidate in a sentiment lexicon to find the correct canonical form of the elongated word. If there is more than one match, the shortest match is taken. Since several sentiment lexicons with different qualities exist, we apply a sequential approach. We search the canonical form of the elongated word in one lexicon. If it does not exist, the next lexicon in the sequence is searched. The sequence of sentiment lexicons is sorted based on the reliability of the lexicon. Manually created lexicons precede automatically created lexicons. In this paper, the ordering is as follows: MPQA subjectivity cues lexicon  (Wilson et al., 2005) , Opinion lexicon  (Hu and Liu, 2004) , NRCC Emotion lexicon (Mohammad and Turney, 2013), sentiment 140, and Hashtag lexicon (both in ). As a result, a mapping from elongated words to their canonical form is found and used to normalize the corpus. Lowercasing finalizes the preprocessing step. 

 Model The system architecture consists of three main components and is depicted in Figure  1 . The first component is a CNN (left part in the figure), which makes use of the sequence of all words in a tweet. The second component is an SVM classifier which uses several linguistic features and the CNN's output as input (top right part in Figure  1 ). Finally, to combine the polarity prediction of the CNN and the SVM we use another SVM on top to receive the final polarity label (bottom right part in Figure  1 ). In this section all components are described in detail. 

 CNN The intuition of using a CNN for sentence modeling is to have a model that is able to capture sequential phenomenon and considers words in their contexts. In a bag-of-words approach the word not, indicating negation, is not set into relation to the words it negates. An n-gram approach might tackle this problem to some extent, but long distance effects are still not captured. Furthermore, a bag-of-words model suffers from sparsity. A CNN is a neural network that can handle sequences by performing a mathematical convolution operation with a filter matrix and the input. The goal is to conflate the input sequence into a meaningful representation by finding salient features that indicate polarity. More formally, the words in the model are represented by two matrices. First, P ? R dp?V denotes a matrix of low dimensional word representations, so called word embeddings. d p , the size of the embeddings, is usually set to 50-300, depending on the task. V denotes the size of the vocabulary. The matrix P is learned during model training. It is initialized either randomly or with a pretrained matrix, as we will describe later. In addition to P , we introduce another matrix Q ? R dq?V which contains external word features. In this case, d q is the number of features per word. This approach allows us to add as much external knowledge into the training process as needed. The features are precomputed and not embedded into any embeddings space, i.e. Q is fixed during training. A description of all features is given later in this section. Both components are concatenated into a lookup table LT = P Q , where each column corresponds to the entire representation of a certain word in the vocabulary. Given a sentence of n words w 1 to w n , the model concatenates all n word representation to the input of the CNN S = ? ? ? | | | LT :,w 1 ? ? ? LT :,wn | | | ? ? ? . A one dimensional convolution is a mathematical operation that slides a filter m ? R 1?m over a vector and computes a dot product at every position. The length of the filter m specifies how many elements the filter spans. Applying this concept to a two dimensional input leads to a convolution matrix where the elements are computed by C i,j = m T S i,j:j+m?1 , where i is the ith row in S and j is the start index of the convolution. A, the output of the convolution layer is computed by an element-wise addition of a bias term (one bias per row) and an element-wise non-linearity: A = f (C + b). As non-linear function we use a rectified linear unit: f (x) = max(0, x). This non-linearity proved to be a crucial part in object recognition  (Jarrett et al., 2009) , machine translation  (Vaswani et al., 2013) , and speech recognition  (Zeiler et al., 2013) . Our model uses two layers of convolution. The concatenation of all rows of the second convolution layer output is the input to a sequence of three fully connected hidden layers. A hidden layer transforms the input vector x into z = f (W x + b), where W is a weight matrix that is learned during training and b is a bias. In order to convert the final hidden layer output z into a probability distribution over polarity labels o ? R 3 , the softmax function is used: o i = exp(z i ) j exp(z j ) . Pretraining of Word Embeddings The standard way of initializing the word embeddings matrix P is by sampling from a uniform distribution. Since there is only a small amount of training data available, word representations cannot be learned from scratch before the model would overfit. Therefore, instead of initializing the word embeddings matrix randomly, we precompute word embeddings with the word2vec toolkit on a large amount of Twitter text data.  1  We first downloaded about 60 million tweets from the unlabeled Twitter Events data set  (McMinn et al., 2013) . This corpus is normalized as described in Section 2. We then select V words, comprising all the words of the SemEval training data, words from the sentiment lexicons, and the most frequent words of the Twitter Events data set. Finally a continuous bag-of-words model  (Mikolov et al., 2013)  with 50 dimensional vectors is trained and used to initialize P . Word Features In addition to the word embeddings the CNN receives additional external features (matrix Q). These features are the following: binary sentiment indicators binary features that indicate the polarity of a token in a sentiment lexicon. The lexicons for this feature are MPQA  (Wilson et al., 2005) , Opinion lexicon  (Hu and Liu, 2004)  and NRCC Emotion lexicon  (Mohammad and Turney, 2013) . sentiment scores the sentiment 140 lexicon and the Hashtag lexicon  both provide a score for each token instead of just a label. We directly use these scores. Both lexicons also contain scores for bigrams and skip ngrams. In such a case each word of an ngram receives the score of the entire ngram. binary negation following the procedure of Christopher Potts' Sentiment Symposium tutorial 2 we mark each token between a negation word and the next punctuation as negated. 

 SVM 1 Since training the CNN for many epochs (entire runs over the whole dataset) always led to overfitting, we decided to use a second classifier, an SVM. Following  we use the following features: binary bag-of-words binary bag-of-words features of uni-and bigrams, as well as character trigrams. In contrast to  our system does not use trigrams or character ngrams of higher order, because it degraded the performance on the validation set. sentiment features for every tweet and every lexicon we add the following features: number of tokens in the tweet that occur in the lexicon, sum of all sentiment scores in the tweet, maximum sentiment score, and the sentiment score of the last token in the tweet. CNN output to inform the SVM about the CNN's classification decision and certainty, we add the softmax output of the CNN as an additional feature. As linear SVM implementation we use  LIBLIN-EAR (Fan et al., 2008) . 

 SVM 2 Analyzing the CNN and SVM 1 predictions we found that both classifiers learn orthogonal features. Therefore, we introduce a second linear SVM into the classification pipeline, which combines the softmax probabilities of the CNN and the confidence scores of the first SVM. The output is the final predicted polarity label of our system. 

 Experiments Twitter's terms of service do not allow to provide tweets as text. Instead, the participants of the SemEval 2015 task had to download the tweets using a list of user and tweet IDs. For learning rate adaptation we use AdaGrad  (Duchi et al., 2011)  with an initial learning rate of 0.001. used in automated speech recognition systems. For example  Gr?zl et al. (2007)  showed that using the bottleneck layer's output leads to lower word error rates than using hidden layer outputs. However, our experimental results show that using the output of the CNN softmax layer as input for the first SVM achieves slightly better performance than using the output of the bottle-neck layer. For both linear SVMs we tune the C parameter on the validation data. 

 Results The last line in Table  1  lists the F 1 performances of our system on the SemEval 2015 test set. The performance on negative examples is much worse than on positive or neutral examples. This is due to the small number of negative training examples. The macro F 1 score of 59.57 leads to rank 20 out of 40 participants in this year's SemEval. The fact that our system scores much better on LifeJournal and the SMS data in terms of F 1,negative suggests that Twitter is an especially difficult medium for automated analysis. The performance difference on Twitter from 2013 and 2014 compared to Twitter 2015 suggests that this year's Twitter data was different than in the years before. Our system scored similarly on Twitter from 2013 and 2014, but worse on 2015. Even worse results are achieved on the sarcasm data. However, the results should be taken with care, because this sub set is very small. 

 Related Work One early work that used CNNs to model sentences was published by  Collobert et al. (2011) . They used one convolution layer followed by a max pooling layer to create a sentence representation. We extend their method by incorporating additional features focused on the polarity classification task. In contrast to their approach, we do not embed our external features, but make direct use of them.  Kalchbrenner et al. (2014)  show that a CNN for modeling sentences can achieve competitive results in polarity classification. Among others, they introduce dynamic k-max pooling, a method that adapts max pooling to the length of an input sentence. Compared to their work we use a simpler architecture of the CNN without max-pooling, because this technique did not show any improvements in our experiments. Furthermore, we use the same filter for each dimension to reduce the number of parameters, whereas their model uses a different filter per dimension. Finally, our CNN model is combined with another classifier to produce the final polarity label. Using an SVM for polarity classification is a common approach. One of the first polarity classification systems used bag-of-words features and an SVM to classify the polarity of movie reviews  (Pang et al., 2002) . The winning system of SemEval 2013 and SemEval 2014 also used an SVM with many different features . We implemented their most helpful features, which is bagof-words and lexicon features and added the CNN output as an additional feature to improve the final performance. 

 Conclusion This paper summarizes the features of our automatic sentiment analysis system -CIS-positive -for the SemEval 2015 shared task -Task 10, subtask B. We carefully normalize the Twitter data and integrate the output of convolutional neural networks into support vector machines for the polarity classification. Our system achieves a macro F-score of 59.57 on the SemEval 2015 test data. Among the 40 participants in this subtask our system reached rank 20 with a distance of 5.0 F 1 points to the winning system. Figure 1: System architecture 
