title
NILC USP: A Hybrid System for Sentiment Analysis in Twitter Messages

abstract
This paper describes the NILC USP system that participated in SemEval-2013 Task 2: Sentiment Analysis in Twitter. Our system adopts a hybrid classification process that uses three classification approaches: rulebased, lexicon-based and machine learning approaches. We suggest a pipeline architecture that extracts the best characteristics from each classifier. Our system achieved an Fscore of 56.31% in the Twitter message-level subtask.

Introduction Twitter and Twitter messages (tweets) are a modern way to express sentiment and feelings about aspects of the world. In this scenario, understanding the sentiment contained in a message is of vital importance in order to understand users behavior and for market analysis  (Java et al., 2007; Kwak et al., 2010) . The research area that deals with the computational treatment of opinion, sentiment and subjectivity in texts is called sentiment analysis  (Pang et al., 2002) . Sentiment analysis is usually associated with a text classification task. Sentiment classifiers are commonly categorized in two basic approaches: lexicon-based and machine learning  (Taboada et al., 2011) . A lexicon-based classifier uses a lexicon to provide the polarity, or semantic orientation, of each word or phrase in the text. A machine learning classifier learns features (usually the vocabulary) from annotated corpus or labeled examples. In this paper, we present a hybrid system for sentiment classification in Twitter messages. Our system combines three different approaches: rule-based, lexicon-based and machine learning. The purpose of our system is to better understand the use of a hybrid system in Twitter text and to verify the performance of this approach in an open evaluation contest. Our system participated in SemEval-2013 Task 2: Sentiment Analysis in Twitter  (Wilson et al., 2013) . The task objective was to determine the sentiment contained in Twitter messages. The task included two sub-tasks: a expression-level classification (Task A) and a message-level classification (Task B). Our system participated in Task B. In this task, for a given message, our system should classify it as positive, negative, or neutral. Our system was coded using Python and the CLiPS Pattern library  (De Smedt and Daelemans, 2012) . This last library provides the part-of-speech tagger and the SVM algorithm used in this work 1 . 

 Related work Despite the significant number of works in sentiment analysis, few works have approached Twitter messages.  Agarwal et al. (2011)  explored new features for sentiment classification of twitter messages.  Davidov et al. (2010)  studied the use of hashtags and emoticons in sentiment classification. Diakopoulos and Shamma (2010) analyzed the people's sentiment on Twitter for first U.S. presidential debate in 2008. The majority of works in sentiment analysis uses either machine learning techniques or lexicon-based  1  Our system code is freely available at http://github.com/pedrobalage/SemevalTwitterHybridClassifier techniques. However, some few works have presented hybrid approaches.  K?nig and Brill (2006)  propose a hybrid classifier that utilizes human reasoning over automatically discovered text patterns to complement machine learning.  Prabowo and Thelwall (2009)  evaluates the effectiveness of different classifiers. This study showed that the use of multiple classifiers in a hybrid manner could improve the effectiveness of sentiment analysis. 

 System architecture Our system is organized in four main components: normalization, rule-based classifier, lexicon-based classifier and machine learning classifier. These components are connected in a pipeline architecture that extracts the best characteristics from each component. The Figure  1  shows the system architecture. This architecture improves the classification process because it takes advantage of the multiple approaches. For example, the rule-based classifier is the most reliable classifier. It achieves good results when the text is matched by a high-confidence rule. However, due the freedom of language, rules may not match 100% of the unseen examples, consequently it has a low recall rate. Lexicon-based classifiers, for example, are very confident in the process to determine if a text is polar or neutral. Using sentiment lexicons, we can determine that sentences containing sentiment words are polar and sentences that do not contain such words are neutral. Moreover, the presence of a high number of positive or negative words in the text may be a strong indicative of the polarity. Finally, machine learning is known to be highly domain adaptive and to be able to find deep correlations  (Taboada et al., 2011) . This last classifier might provide the final decision when the previous methods failed. In the following sub-sections, we describe in more details the components in which our system is based on. In the next section, we explain how the confidence level was determined. 

 Normalization and rule-based classifier The normalization module is in charge of correcting and normalizing the texts. This module performs the following operations: ? Elements such as hashtags, urls and mentions are transformed into a consistent set of codes; ? Emoticons are grouped into representative categories (such as happy, sad, laugh) and converted to particular codes; ? Signals of exaltation (such as repetitive exclamation marks) are recognized; ? A simple misspelling correction is performed; ? Part-of-speech tagging is performed. The rule-based classifier is very simple. The only rules applied here are concerned to the emoticons found in the text. Empirically, we evidenced that positive emoticons are an important indicative of positiveness in texts. Likewise, negative emoticons indicate negativeness tendency. This module returns the number of positive and negative emoticons matched in the text. 

 Lexicon-based classifier The lexicon-based classifier is based on the idea that the polarity of a text can be summarized by the sum of the individual polarity values of each word or phrase present in the text. In this assumption, a sentiment lexicon identifies polar words and assigns polarity values to them (known as semantic orientations). In our system, we used the sentiment lexicon provided by SentiStrength  (Thelwall et al., 2010) . This lexicon provides an emotion vocabulary, an emoticons list, a negation list and a booster word list. In our algorithm, we sum the semantic orientations of each individual word in the text. If the word is negated, the polarity is inverted. If the word is intensified (boosted), we increase its polarity by a factor determined in the sentiment lexicon. A lexiconbased classifier usually assumes the signal of the final score as the sentiment class: positive, negative or neutral (score zero). 

 Machine learning classifier The machine learning classifier uses labeled examples to learn how to classify new instances. The algorithm learns by using features extracted from these examples. In our classifier, we used the SVM algorithm provided by CLiPS Pattern. The features used by the classifier are bag-of-words, the part-ofspeech set, and the existence of negation in the sentence. 

 Hybrid approach and tuning The organization from SemEval-2013 Task 2: Sentiment Analysis in Twitter provided three datasets for the task  (Wilson et al., 2013) . A training dataset (TrainSet), with 6,686 messages 2 , a development dataset (DevSet), with 1,654 messages, and two testing datasets (TestSets), with 3,813 (Twitter TestSet) and 2,094 (SMS TestSet) messages each. As we said in the previous section, our system is a pipeline of classifiers where each classifier may assign a sentiment class if it achieves a particular confidence threshold. This confidence threshold is a fixed value we set for each system in order to have a decision boundary. This decision was made by inspecting the results table obtained with the development set, as shown below. Table  1  shows how the rule-based classifier performed in the development dataset. The classifier score consists in the difference between the number of positive emoticons and the number of negative emoticons found in the message. For example, for score of -1 we had 22 negative, 4 neutral and 2 positive messages. Inspecting the Table  1  we adjusted the rule-based classifier boundary to decide when the score is different from zero. For values greater than zero, the classifier will assign the positive class and, for values below zero, the classifier will assign the negative class. For values equal zero, the classifier will call the lexicon-based classifier. Table  2  is similar to the Table  1 , but it now shows the scores obtained by the lexicon-based classifier for the development set. This score is the message semantic orientation computed by the sum of the semantic orientation for each individual word. Inspecting Table  2 , we adjusted the lexicon-based classifier to assign the positive class when the total score is greater than 3 and negative class when the total score is below -3. Moreover, we evidenced that, compared to the other classifiers, the lexicon-based classifier had better performance to determine the neutral class. Therefore, we adjusted the lexiconbased classifier to assign the neutral class when the total score is zero. For any other values, the machine learning classifier is called. Finally, Table  3  shows the confusion matrix for the machine learning classifier in the development   

 Results Table  4  shows the results obtained by each individual classifier and the hybrid classifier for the test dataset. In the task, the systems were evaluated with the average F-Score obtained for positive and negative classes 3 . We see that the Hybrid approach could improve in relation to each classifier score, confirming our hypothesis.   

 Conclusion We described a hybrid classification system used for Semeval-2013 Task 2: Sentiment Analysis in Twitter. This paper showed how a hybrid classifier might take advantage of multiple sentiment analysis approaches and how these approaches perform in a Twitter dataset. A future direction of this work would be improving each individual classifier. In our system, we used simple methods for each employed classifier. Thus, we believe the hybrid classification technique applied might achieve even better results. This strengthens our theory that hybrid techniques might outperform the current state-of-art in sentiment analysis. Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1: System architecture 
