title
Day 112: NLP Papers Summary -A Challenge Dataset And Effective Models For Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis Objective and Contribution

abstract
Introduced a new aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) dataset known as Multi-Aspect Multi-Sentiment (MAMS), where each sentence contains at least two different aspects and two difference sentiment. The proposed MAMS dataset could solve the common issue of existing ABSA dataset, where most sentences contain the same sentiment for different aspects, degenerating ABSA to sentence-level sentiment analysis. The paper also proposed a simple baseline model, CapsNet-BERT, for the dataset.

ENCODING LAYER We take the aspect-aware sentence embedding and feed it into Bi-directional GRU with residual connection to get the contextualised representation. 

 PRIMARY CAPSULE LAYER Using linear transformation and squashing activation, we get the primary capsules P using the contextualised representation and aspect capsule using the aspect embedding from the embedding layer. There are two further mechanisms in this layer: 1. Aspect Aware Normalisation. This is to counter the fact that variation of sentence length cause training to be unstable and so we use aspect capsule to normalise primary capsule weights, to select important primary capsules.  

 Capsule Guided 

 CATEGORY CAPSULE LAYER Using the primary capsules, aspect-aware normalised weights and capsule-guided routing weights, we can compute the nal category capsules. Note that for CapsNet-BERT, the embedding and encoding layer are replaced with pre-trained BERT. 

 Experiments and Results There are three evaluation datasets: ATSA, ACSA, and SemEval-2014 restaurant review.  

 MODELS COMPARISON NLP Papers Summary -A Challenge Dataset and Effective Models for Aspect-Based Sentiment An? https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/04/21/day-112-nlp-papers-summary-a-challenge-dataset-and-effective-models-for-aspect-based-se? 2MAMS dataset are created to tackle two areas of aspect-based sentiment analysis: aspect-term sentiment analysis (ATSA) and aspect-category sentiment analysis (ACSA). For ATSA, we extracted aspect terms in sentences and map them with the appropriate sentiment and remove any sentences with one aspect or multiple aspects with the same sentiment. The dataset also includes the start and end positions for each aspect term. For ACSA, we pre-de ned eight aspect categories: food, service, staff, price, ambience, menu, place, and miscellaneous. Each sentence is map to an aspect category along with the appropriate sentiment towards the aspect category. The dataset only includes sentences with at least two unique aspect categories with different sentiment. NLP Papers Summary -A Challenge Dataset and Effective Models for Aspect-Based Sentiment An? https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/04/21/day-112-nlp-papers-summary-a-challenge-dataset-and-effective-models-for-aspect-based-se? 3/10 CapsNet-BERT Given a sentence and an aspect term or an aspect category, we want the model to predict the sentiment of the sentence with respect to the aspects. The proposed model is CapsNet-NLP Papers Summary -A Challenge Dataset and Effective Models for Aspect-Based Sentiment An? https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/04/21/day-112-nlp-papers-summary-a-challenge-dataset-and-effective-models-for-aspect-based-se? 4/10EMBEDDING LAYERIn this layer, we convert the input sentence and aspect into word embeddings. For aspect term embedding, we computed it as the average of the aspect word embeddings. For aspect category embedding, we initialised the embedding randomly and learn during training. The output of the embedding layer is the aspect-aware sentence embedding where we concatenate aspect embedding with each word embedding in the sentence. 

 Routing. This leverages prior knowledge of sentiment categories to improve the routing process. During training, a sentiment matrix is initialised and this is feed into a squash activation to obtain sentiment capsules. The routing weights are then computed by measuring the similarity between the primary capsules and sentiment capsules. 

 NLP Papers Summary -A Challenge Dataset and Effective Models for Aspect-Based Sentiment An? https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/04/21/day-112-nlp-papers-summary-a-challenge-dataset-and-effective-models-for-aspect-based-se? 5method on SemEval-2014 perform poorly or average on the MAMS datasets, indicating the high dif culty level of the MAMS dataset Attention-based models without properly modelling word sequences performed badly in MAMS as they lose sequential information of sentences and so fail to connect the context with the aspect CapsNet outperformed BERT on 4 out of 6 datasets, showing the strength of CapsNet. The combination of CapsNet-BERT outperformed all models in all datasets ? ? 21/02/2022, 22:01 Day 112: NLP Papers Summary -A Challenge Dataset and Effective Models for Aspect-Based Sentiment An? https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/04/21/day-112-nlp-papers-summary-a-challenge-dataset-and-effective-models-for-aspect-based-se? 6/10 Ryan Data Scientist You May Also Like CapsNet-DR and CapsNet-BERT-DR are included to measure the effectiveness of the capsule guided routing. We use the standardised dynamic routing (DR) which reduces the performance of the model and underperformed our CapsNet-BERT Source: https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/
