title
MEDIASUM: A Large-scale Media Interview Dataset for Dialogue Summarization

abstract
This paper introduces MEDIASUM 1 , a largescale media interview dataset consisting of 463.6K transcripts with abstractive summaries. To create this dataset, we collect interview transcripts from NPR and CNN and employ the overview and topic descriptions as summaries. Compared with existing public corpora for dialogue summarization, our dataset is an order of magnitude larger and contains complex multi-party conversations from multiple domains. We conduct statistical analysis to demonstrate the unique positional bias exhibited in the transcripts of televised and radioed interviews. We also show that MEDIASUM can be used in transfer learning to improve a model's performance on other dialogue summarization tasks. * Equal contribution 1 https://github.com/zcgzcgzcg1/ MediaSum/

Introduction Dialogue summarization can provide a succinct synopsis for conversations between two or more participants, based on human-transcribed or machine-generated transcripts. Dialogue summaries are useful for participants to recap salient information in the talk and for absentees to grasp the key points. As a result, several models have been recently proposed to summarize daily conversations  (Gliwa et al., 2019; Chen and Yang, 2020) , meeting transcripts  (Zhu et al., 2020)  and customer support conversations . However, compared with the abundance of text summarization datasets, there are very few public datasets for dialogue summarization. And existing datasets are limited to their small sizes. For example, the benchmark datasets for meeting summarization, AMI  (McCowan et al., 2005)  and ICSI  (Janin et al., 2003) , only contain transcripts and abstractive summaries for 137 and 59 business meetings, respectively. While recently some larger dialogue summarization datasets have been proposed, they are either built from a narrow domain, e.g. the CRD3 dataset  (Rameshkumar and Bailey)  which is built from conversations in a live-streamed show for the Dungeons and Dragons game, or not publicized due to privacy reasons, e.g. the Didi dataset  from customer service conversations. This lack of large-scale dialogue summarization datasets is due to a higher labeling cost compared with news articles and privacy issues with many real daily dialogues and business meetings. On the other hand, media interview transcripts and the associated summaries/topics can be a valuable source for dialogue summarization. In a broadcast interview, the host discusses various topics with one or more guests. As many interviews proceed with pre-defined topics, the accompanying summaries are of a relatively high quality. Also, the wide variety of topics, different backgrounds of speakers, and the colloquial form of chat make these interviews very close to daily conversations and business meetings. Therefore, we collect public interview transcripts and the associated summaries/topics from NPR and CNN to build a large-scale dialogue summarization dataset, MEDIASUM. In NPR, each transcript comes with an overview of the interview, which is used as the summary in our dataset. We leverage the INTERVIEW dataset  (Majumder et al., 2020)  to get transcripts and crawl the associated descriptions. We end up with 49.4K NPR transcripts with summaries. We then collect 269.4K CNN interview transcripts from 2000 to 2020, each with a list of topic descriptions. As many CNN interviews contain multiple topics, we conduct segmentation at the boundary of commercial breaks to assign each topic to the most relevant interview segment via lexical matching. In this way, we not only obtain tran-scripts with a more concentrated topic but also enlarge the total number of instances. We end up with 414.2K CNN transcript segments with topic descriptions as summaries. Thus, in total, our ME-DIASUM dataset contains 463.6K transcripts with summaries. We show that compared to existing public dialogue summarization datasets, MEDIA-SUM contains more speakers, longer conversation and is an order of magnitude larger. Also, we demonstrate the unique positional bias in interview dialogues: while a televised interview often mentions keywords in the summary at the beginning of the program, a radio interview usually mentions these keywords at both the beginning and the end of the program. In experiments, we evaluate several benchmark summarization models on our dataset. We then show that after fine-tuning on MEDIASUM, models' performance can be improved on other dialogue summarization tasks like AMI, ICSI and SAMSum, demonstrating the transfer learning capability of our dataset. 

 Related Work Due to the success of corpus-based methods, the past decade saw the emergence of many dialogue datasets on various domains  (Budzianowski et al., 2018; Lowe et al., 2015) . However, very few of these datasets contain corresponding summary text. As human dialogues have very different structures and language patterns from written articles, dialogue summarization models can only limitedly benefit from the largely available news summarization data  (Zhu et al., 2020) . Current public datasets for dialogue summarization are either very small or in a specific domain.  AMI (McCowan et al., 2005)  and ICSI  (Janin et al., 2003)  contain 137 and 59 meeting transcripts with abstractive summaries. AMI meetings are recorded in an artificial environment with actors and ICSI contains meetings of a speech group. MultiWOZ  (Budzianowski et al., 2018)  is a multi-domain taskoriented dialogue dataset where the instructions have been used as summaries  (Yuan and Yu, 2019) . All dialogues are conducted between one user and one agent on the topic of booking and inquiry. SAMSum  (Gliwa et al., 2019)  hires linguists to write messenger-like daily conversations. Although the dialogues are open-domain, they are not from real human conversations. CRD3 (Rameshkumar and Bailey) contains 159 episodes from the Critical Role show with transcribed conversations between Dungeons and Dragon players. Additionally, there are non-public dialogue summarization datasets in th domains of customer support  and medical conversation  (Krishna et al., 2020) . 3 Media Interview Dataset: MEDIASUM 

 Data collection We first collect interview transcriptions from National Public Radio (NPR, www.npr.org). The INTERVIEW dataset (Majumder et al., 2020) contains 105K transcripts from NPR but does not include interview summaries or the link to the transcript page. We find a majority of NPR interviews come with an overview description before the transcription text, which can be used as summaries. Thus, for each interview in the INTER-VIEW dataset, we use the NPR searching service to get the link to the corresponding page and extract the description text if it exists. We filter out descriptions with more than 200 words and collect 49.4K transcripts with summaries. The CNN transcription service provides transcripts of televised interviews and a list of discussed topics, which can be used as summaries (transcripts.cnn.com). We crawl CNN transcripts from 2014 to 2020, combined with the data from 2000 to 2014  (Sood, 2017) , and end up with 269.4K transcripts with summaries. Transcript segmentation for topic match. Interviews with multiple topics are often long, and the mixing of multiple topics makes it hard for models to generate accurate summaries. Among the collected CNN interviews, 157.9K transcripts, or 58.6%, have more than one topic. Thus, we try to partition multi-topic interviews into segments and match each topic to a segment. We find that the televised CNN interviews often contain several commercial breaks marked in the transcript. These ads usually come in between topics. Therefore, we partition the transcript at the boundaries of commercial breaks. Then, we assign each topic to the segment containing the most (at least one) non-stop words in the topic. We do not count the last 50 words in a segment where the host often reminds watchers of the next topic after the commercial break. Among the 157.9K multi-topic interviews, 330.4K segments are associated with at least one topic. To make sure that the summary contains enough information, we filter out summaries with fewer than 5 words. In the end, we construct 414.2K CNN interview transcripts with summaries. As transcripts from the NPR and CNN are from similar domains, we combine them into a unified summarization dataset, MEDIASUM, containing 463.6K pairs of transcripts and summaries. As far as we know, this is the largest public opendomain dialogue summarization dataset. We show an example dialogue with its summary in Table  5 . Here, we note that the summary styles of NPR and CNN are different. Table  1  shows that although the dialogue length and number of speakers are similar in NPR and CNN, the summaries from NPR are much longer and more abstractive, indicated by a higher ratio of novel words in summary that do not appear in the dialogue. 

 Data statistics In this section, we investigate different aspects of the MEDIASUM dataset via statistics. We leverage the Latent Dirichlet Allocation  (Blei et al., 2003)  tool in scikit-learn package  (Pedregosa et al., 2011)  to analyze the main dialogue topics. We manually name the topic clusters based on the returned top 10 words in each cluster. The top 5 topics are politics (26.3%), international news (13.3%), crime (12.7%), economy (12.5%) and US news (11.7%). The dialogues in MEDIASUM have on average 30.0 turns, 6.5 speakers and 1,553.7 words, and the summaries have on average 14.4 words. This shows that most dialogues in our dataset are multiparty conversations of medium to long lengths. Table  2  compares MEDIASUM with other public dialogue summarization datasets. As shown, MEDIASUM contains much longer dialogues and more speakers than MultiWOZ 2.0 and SAMSum. This makes it suitable for training models targeted for multi-party dialogue or meeting summarization. Also, while AMI, ICSI and MultiWOZ 2.0 contain dialogues either from limited domains or un- der artificial context, MEDIASUM is a much larger dataset containing radioed and televised interview transcripts covering much broader topics. 

 Positional Bias It has been found that in many news articles, the most important information is often shown at the beginning, i.e. the inverted pyramid structure  (Kedzie et al., 2018) . In this section, we investigate whether a similar positional bias is present in multi-party dialogues. We record the position of each non-stop word in the transcript that also appears in the summary. To normalize, we partition each transcript into 100 equal-length bins and count the frequency that summary words appear in each bin. As shown in Fig.  1 , similar to news articles, the beginning of transcripts from both CNN and NPR contain more summary words on average. However, different from televised CNN interviews, NPR programs also contain many summary words near the end. To make sure that the trend in CNN is not caused by topic segmentation, we compute the frequency for original single-topic CNN transcripts and find that the trend is very similar to the overall distribution (Appendix C). Thus, we suggest that the difference in positional bias between televised and radioed programs may be because viewers watching interviews on TV are relatively more focused, diminishing the need to recapitulate the main points before the program ends. 

 Experiments 

 Results on MediaSum We apply several benchmark summarization models to the MEDIASUM dataset and report the results, including PTGen  (See et al., 2017)   trained models UniLM-base-uncased  (Dong et al., 2019)  and BART-Large  (Lewis et al., 2019) . The input concatenates transcripts from all turns, each prepended with the speaker name. We also include the LEAD-3 baseline which takes the first three sentences of the transcript as the summary. More implementation details are shown in Appendix D. We randomly select 10K instances for validation and another 10K for test. We use the ROUGE  (Lin, 2004)  metrics and hyper-parameters are chosen based on the highest ROUGE-L score on the validation set. As shown in Table  3 , the LEAD-3 baseline has a relatively weak performance, indicating that media dialogues exhibit less lead bias than news articles. This aligns with the general guideline to avoid inverted pyramid structure in digital programs  (Macadam) . Moreover, pre-trained models such as BART and UniLM outperform the non-pretrained PTGen model, showing the effectiveness of pre-training. 

 Transfer Learning In this section, we evaluate the transfer capability of MEDIASUM by employing it for further training to improve the performance on other dialogue summarization tasks of different domains and styles. Specifically, we take the pre-trained model UniLM  (Dong et al., 2019) , fine-tune it on MEDIASUM, and then train it on datasets for meeting and dialogue summarization: AMI  (McCowan et al., 2005) , ICSI  (Janin et al., 2003)  and SAMSum  (Gliwa et al., 2019) . Model R-1 R-2 R-L AMI UniLM As shown in Table  4 , on all three datasets, training on MEDIASUM leads to improvement on the target dataset. This shows the potential of using MEDIASUM as a transfer learning dataset for other dialogue summarization tasks. 

 Conclusion We introduce MEDIASUM, a large-scale media interview dataset for dialogue summarization, consisting of 463.6K transcripts and summaries from NPR and CNN. We conduct transcript segmentation to align topic descriptions to segments for CNN interviews. The MEDIASUM dataset is an order of magnitude larger than existing corpora and contains complex multi-party conversations from { "id": "NPR-11", "program": "Day to Day", "date": "2008-06-10", "url": "https://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=91356794", "title": "Researchers Find Discriminating Plants", "summary": "The 'sea rocket' shows preferential treatment to plants that are its kin.  multiple domains. We also show that MEDIASUM can be used as a dataset for transfer learning to improve a model's performance on other dialogue summarization tasks. 
