title
MSˆ2: A Dataset for Multi-Document Summarization of Medical Studies

abstract
To assess the effectiveness of any medical intervention, researchers must conduct a timeintensive and manual literature review. NLP systems can help to automate or assist in parts of this expensive process. In support of this goal, we release MS?2 (Multi-Document Summarization of Medical Studies), a dataset of over 470k documents and 20K summaries derived from the scientific literature. This dataset facilitates the development of systems that can assess and aggregate contradictory evidence across multiple studies, and is the first large-scale, publicly available multi-document summarization dataset in the biomedical domain. We experiment with a summarization system based on BART, with promising early results, though significant work remains to achieve higher summarization quality. We formulate our summarization inputs and targets in both free text and structured forms and modify a recently proposed metric to assess the quality of our system's generated summaries. Data and models are available at https:// github.com/allenai/ms2.

Introduction Multi-document summarization (MDS) is a challenging task, with relatively limited resources and modeling techniques. Existing datasets are either in the general domain, such as WikiSum  and Multi-News  (Fabbri et al., 2019) , or very small such as DUC 1 or TAC 2011  (Owczarzak and Dang, 2011) . In this work, we add to this burgeoning area by developing a dataset for summarizing biomedical findings. We derive documents and summaries from systematic literature reviews, a type of biomedical paper that synthesizes results across many other studies. Our aim in introducing MS?2 is to: (1) expand MDS to the biomedical domain, (2) investigate fundamentally challenging  issues in NLP over scientific text, such as summarization over contradictory information and assessing summary quality via a structured intermediate form, and (3) aid in distilling large amounts of biomedical literature by supporting automated generation of literature review summaries. Systematic reviews synthesize knowledge across many studies  (Khan et al., 2003) , and they are so called for the systematic (and expensive) process of creating a review; each taking 1-2 years to complete  (Michelson and Reuter, 2019) .  2  As we note in Fig.  2 , a delay of around 8 years is observed between reviews and the studies they cite! The time and cost of creating and updating reviews has inspired efforts at automation  (Tsafnat et al., 2014; Marshall et al., 2016; Beller et al., 2018; Marshall and Wallace, 2019) , and the constant deluge of studies 3 has only increased this need. To move the needle on these challenges and support further work on literature review automation, we present MS?2, a multi-document summarization dataset in the biomedical domain. Our contributions in this paper are as follows: ? We introduce MS?2, a dataset of 20K reviews and 470k studies summarized by these reviews. ? We define a texts-to-text MDS task (Fig.  1 ) based on MS?2, by identifying target summaries in each review and using study abstracts as input documents. We develop a BART-based model for this task, which produces fluent summaries that agree with the evidence direction stated in gold summaries around 50% of the time. ? In order to expose more granular representations to users, we define a structured form of our data to support a table-to-table task ( ? 4.2). We leverage existing biomedical information extraction systems  (Nye et al., 2018; DeYoung et al., 2020) ( ?3.3.1, ?3.3.2)  to evaluate agreement between target and generated summaries. 

 Background Systematic reviews aim to synthesize results over all relevant studies on a topic, providing high quality evidence for biomedical and public health decisions. They are a fixture in the biomedical literature, with many established protocol around their registration, production, and publication  (Chalmers et al., 2002; Starr et al., 2009; Booth et al., 2012) . Each systematic review addresses one or several research questions, and results are extracted from relevant studies and summarized. For example, a review investigating the effectiveness of Vitamin B12 supplementation in older adults  (Andr?s et al., 2010)  synthesizes results from 9 studies. The research questions in systematic reviews can be described using the PICO framework  (Zakowski et al., 2004) . PICO (which stands for Population: who is studied? Intervention: what intervention was studied? Comparator: what was the intervention compared against? Outcome: what was measured?) defines the main facets of biomedical research questions, and allows the person(s) conducting a review to identify relevant studies (studies included in a review generally have the same or similar PICO elements as the review). A medical systematic review is one which reports results for applying any kind of medical or social intervention to a group of people. Interventions are wideranging, including yoga, vaccination, team training, education, vitamins, mobile reminders, and more. Recent work on evidence inference  (DeYoung et al., 2020; Nye et al., 2020)  goes beyond identifying PICO elements, and aims to group and identify overall findings in reviews. MS?2 is a natural extension of these paths: we create a dataset and build a system with both natural summarization targets from input studies, while also incorporating the inherent structure studied in previous work. In this work, we use the term review when describing literature review papers, which provide our summary targets. We use the term study to describe the documents that are cited and summarized by each review. There are various study designs which offer differing levels of evidence, e.g. clinical trials, cohort studies, observational studies, case studies, and more  (Concato et al., 2000) . Of these study types, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) offer the highest quality of evidence  (Meldrum, 2000) . 

 Dataset We construct MS?2 from papers in the Semantic Scholar literature corpus  (Ammar et al., 2018) . First, we create a corpus of reviews and studies based on the suitability criteria defined in ?3.1. For each review, we classify individual sentences in the abstract to identify summarization targets ( ?3.2). We augment all reviews and studies with PICO span labels and evidence inference classes as described in ?3.3.1 and ?3.3.2. As a final step in data preparation, we cluster reviews by topic and form train, development, and test sets from these clusters ( ?3.4). 

 Identifying suitable reviews and studies To identify suitable reviews, we apply (i) a highrecall heuristic keyword filter, (ii) PubMed filter, (iii) study-type filter, and (iv) suitability classifier, in series. The keyword filter looks for the phrase "systematic review" in the title and abstracts of all papers in Semantic Scholar, which yields 220K matches. The PubMed filter, yielding 170K matches, limits search results to papers that have been indexed in the PubMed database, which restricts reviews to those in the biomedical, clinical, psychological, and associated domains. We then use citations and Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) to identify input studies via their document types and further refine the remaining reviews, see App. A for details on the full filtering process. Finally, we train a suitability classifier as the final filtering step, using SciBERT , a BERT  (Devlin et al., 2019)  based language model trained on scientific text. Details on classifier training and performance are provided in Appendix C. Applying this classifier to the remaining reviews leaves us with 20K candidate reviews. 

 Background and target identification For each review, we identify two sections: 1) the BACKGROUND statement, which describes the research question, and 2) the overall effect or findings statement as the TARGET of the MDS task (Fig.  1 ). We frame this as a sequential sentence classification task : given the sentences in the review abstract, classify them as BACKGROUND, TARGET, or OTHER. All BACKGROUND sentences are aggregated and used as input in modeling. All TARGET sentences are aggregated and form the summary target for that review. Sentences classified as OTHER may describe the methods used to conduct the review, detailed findings such as the number of included studies or numerical results, as well as recommendations for practice. OTHER sentences are not suitable for modeling because they   (Andr?s et al., 2010) . either contain information specific to the review, as in methods; too much detail, in the case of results; or contain guidance on how medicine should be practiced, which is both outside the scope of our task definition and ill-advised to generate. Five annotators with undergraduate or graduate level biomedical background labeled 3000 sentences from 220 review abstracts. During annotation, we asked annotators to label sentences into 9 classes (which we collapse into the 3 above; see App. D for detailed info on other classes). Two annotators then reviewed all annotations and corrected mistakes. The corrections yield a Cohen's ?  (Cohen, 1960)  of 0.912. Though we retain only BACKGROUND and TARGET sentences for modeling, we provide labels to all 9 classes in our dataset. Using SciBERT , we train a sequential sentence classifier. We prepend each sentence with a [SEP] token and use a linear layer followed by a softmax to classify each sentence. A detailed breakdown of the classifier scores is available in Tab. 9, App. D. While the classifier performs well (94.1 F1) at identifying BACKGROUND sentences, it only achieves 77.4 F1 for TARGET sentences. The most common error for TARGET sentences is confusing them for results from individual studies or detailed statistical analysis. Tab. 1 shows example sentences with predicted labels. Due to the size of the dataset, we cannot manually annotate sentence labels for all reviews, so we use the sentence classifier output as silver labels in the training set. To ensure the highest degree of accuracy for the summary targets in our test set, we manually review all 4519 TARGET sentences in the 2K reviews of the test set, correcting 1109 sentences. Any re-views without TARGET sentences are considered unsuitable and are removed from the final dataset. 

 Structured form As discussed in ?2, the key findings of studies and reviews can be succinctly captured in a structured representation. The structure consists of PICO elements  (Nye et al., 2018)  that define what is being studied, in addition to the effectiveness of the intervention as inferred through Evidence Inference ( ?3.3.2). In addition to the textual form of our task, we construct this structured form and release it with MS?2 to facilitate investigation of consistency between input studies and reviews, and to provide additional information for interpreting the findings reported in each document. 

 Adding PICO tags The Populations, Interventions, and Outcomes of interest are a common way of representing clinical knowledge  (Huang et al., 2006) . Recent work  (Nye et al., 2020)  has found that the Comparator is rarely mentioned explicitly, so we exclude it from our dataset. Previous summarization work has shown that tagging salient entities, especially PIO elements  (Wallace et al., 2020) , can improve summarization performance  (Nallapati et al., 2016a,b) , so we mark PIO elements with special tokens added to our model vocabulary: <pop>, </pop>, <int>, </int>, <out>, and </out>. Using the EBM-NLP corpus  (Nye et al., 2018) , a crowd-sourced collection of PIO tags, 4 we train a token classification model  (Wolf et al., 2020)  to identify these spans in our study and review documents. These span sets are denoted P = {P 1 , P 2 , ..., P P }, I = {I 1 , I 2 , ..., I? } and O = {O 1 , O 2 , ..., O ?}. At the level of each review, we perform a simple aggregation over these elements. Any P, I, or O span fully contained within any other span of the same type is removed from these sets (though they remain tagged in the text). Removing these contained elements reduces the number of duplicates in our structured representation. Our dataset has an average of 3.0 P, 3.5 I, and 5.4 O spans per review. 

 Adding Evidence Inference We predict the direction of evidence associated with every Intervention-Outcome (I/O) pair found in the review abstract. Taking the product of each I i and O j in the sets I and O yields all possible I/O pairs, and each I/O pair is associated with an evidence direction d ij , which can take on one of the values in {increases, no_change, decreases }. For each I/O pair, we also derive a sentence s ij from the document supporting the d ij classification. Each review can therefore be represented as a set of tuples T of the form (I i , O j , s ij , d ij ) and cardinality ? ? ?. See Tab. 2 for examples. For modeling, as in PICO tagging, we surround supporting sentences with special tokens <evidence> and </evidence>; and append the direction class with a <sep> token. We adapt the Evidence Inference (EI) dataset and models  (DeYoung et al., 2020)  for labeling. The EI dataset is a collection of RCTs, tagged PICO elements, evidence sentences, and overall evidence direction labels increases, no_change, or decreases. The EI models are composed of 1) an evidence identification module which identifies an evidence sentence, and 2) an evidence classification module for classifying the direction of effectiveness. The former is a binary classifier on top of SciBERT, whereas the latter is a softmax distribution over effectiveness directions. Using the same parameters as DeYoung et al. (  2020 ), we modify these two modules to function solely over I and O spans.  5  The resulting 354k EI classifications for our reviews are 13.4% decreases, 57.0% no_change, and 29.6% increases. Of the 907k classifications over input studies, 15.7% are decreases, 60.7% no_change, and 23.6% increases. Only 53.8% of study classifications match review classifications, highlighting the prevalence and challenges of contradictory data. 

 Clustering and train / test split Reviews addressing overlapping research questions or providing updates to previous reviews may share input studies and results in common, e.g., a review studying the effect of Vitamin B12 supplementation on B12 levels in older adults and a review studying the effect of B12 supplementation on heart disease risk will cite similar studies. To avoid the phenomenon of learning from test data, we cluster reviews before splitting into train, validation, and test sets. We compute SPECTER paper embeddings     (Owczarzak and Dang, 2011) , WikiSum , and Multi-News  (Fabbri et al., 2019) . Note: WikiSum only provides ranges, not exact size. abstract of each review, and perform agglomerative hierarchical clustering using the scikit-learn library  (Buitinck et al., 2013) . This results in 200 clusters, which we randomly partition into 80/10/10 train/development/test sets. 

 Dataset statistics The final dataset consists of 20K reviews and 470k studies. Each review in the dataset summarizes an average of 23 studies, ranging between 1-401 studies. See Tab. 3 for statistics, and Tab. 4 for a comparison to other datasets. The median review has 6.7K input tokens from its input studies, while the average has 9.4K tokens (a few reviews have lots of studies). We restrict the input size when modeling to 25 studies, which reduces the average input to 6.6K tokens without altering the median. Fig.  2  shows the temporal distribution of reviews and input studies in MS?2. We observe that though reviews in our dataset have a median publication year of 2016, the studies cited by these reviews are largely from before 2010, with a median of 2007 and peak in 2009. This citation delay has been observed in prior work  (Shojania et al., 2007; Beller et al., 2013) , and further illustrates the need for automated or assisted reviews. 

 Experiments We experiment with a texts-to-text task formulation (Fig.  1 ). The model input consists of the BACK-Figure  3 : Two input encoding configurations. Above: LongformerEncoderDecoder (LED), where all input studies are appended to the BACKGROUND and encoded together. Below: In the BART configuration, each input study is encoded independently with the review BACKGROUND. These are concatenated to form the input encoding. GROUND statement and study abstracts; the output is the TARGET statement. We also investigate the use of the structured form described in ?3.3.2 for a supplementary table-to-table task, where given inputs of I/O pairs from the review; the model tries to predict the evidence direction. We provide initial results for the table-to-table task, although we consider this an area in need of active research. 

 Texts-to-text task Our approach leverages BART  (Lewis et al., 2020b) , a seq2seq autoencoder. Using BART, we encode the BACKGROUND and input studies as in Fig.  3 , and pass these representations to a decoder. Training follows a standard auto-regressive paradigm used for building summarization models. In addition to PICO tags ( ?3.3.1), we augment the inputs by surrounding the background and each input study with special tokens <background>, </background>, and <study>, </study>. For representing multiple inputs, we experiment with two configurations: one leveraging BART with independent encodings of each input, and LongformerEncoderDecoder (LED)  which can encode long inputs of up to 16K tokens. For the BART configuration, each study abstract is appended to the BACKGROUND statement and encoded independently. These representations are concatenated together to form the input to the decoder layer. In the BART configuration, interactions happen only in the decoder. For the LED configuration, the input sequence starts with the BACK-GROUND statement followed by a concatenation of all input study abstracts. The BACKGROUND representation is shared among all input studies; global attention allows interactions between studies, and a sliding attention window of 512 tokens allows each token to attend to its neighbors. We train a BART-base model, with hyperparameters described in App. F. We report experimental results in Tab. 5. In addition to ROUGE  (Lin, 2004) , we also report two metrics derived from evidence inference: ?EI and F1. We describe the intuition and computation of the ?EI metric in Section 4.3; because it is a distance metric, lower ?EI is better. For F1, we use the EI classification module to identify evidence directions for both the generated and target summaries. Using these classifications, we report a macro-averaged F1 over the class agreement between the generated and target summaries  (Buitinck et al., 2013) . For example generations, see Tab. 13 in App. G. 

 Table-to-table task An end user of a review summarization system may be interested in specific results from input studies (including whether they agree or contradict) rather than the high level conclusions available in TAR-GET statements. Therefore, we further experiment with structured input and output representations that attempt to capture results from individual studies. As described in ?3.3.2, the structured representation of each review or study is a tuple of the form (I i , O j , s ij , d ij ). It is important to note that we use the same set of Is and Os from the review to predict evidence direction from all input studies. Borrowing from the ideas of  (Raffel et al., 2020) , we formulate our classification task as a text generation task, and train the models described in Section 4.1 to generate one of the classes in {increases, no_change, decreases }. Using the EI classifications from 3.3.2, we compute an F-score macroaveraged over the effect classes (Tab. 6). We retain all hyperparameter settings other than reducing the maximum generation length to 10. We stress that this is a preliminary effort to demonstrate feasibility rather than completenessour results in Tab. 6 are promising but the underlying technologies for building the structured data: PICO tagging, co-reference resolution, and PICO relation extraction, are currently weak  (Nye et al., 2020) . Resorting to using the full cross-product of Interventions and Outcomes results in duplicated I/O pairs as well as potentially spurious pairs that do not correspond to actual I/O pairs in the review. 

 ?EI metric Recent work in summarization evaluation has highlighted the weaknesses of ROUGE for capturing factuality of generated summaries, and has focused on developing automated metrics more closely correlated with human-assessed factuality and quality  (Zhang* et al., 2020; Falke et al., 2019) . In this vein, we modify a recently proposed metric based on EI classification distributions  (Wallace et al., 2020) , intending to capture the agreement of Is, Os, and EI directions between input studies and the generated summary. For each I/O tuple (I i , O j ), the predicted direction d ij is actually a distribution of probabilities over the three direction classes P ij = (p increases , p decreases , p no_change ). If we consider this distribution for the gold summary (P ij ) and the generated summary (Q ij ), we can compute the Jensen-Shannon Distance (JSD)  (Lin, 1991) , a bounded score between [0, 1], between these distributions. For each review, we can then compute a summary JSD metric, which we call ?EI, as an average over the JSD of each I/O tuple in that review: ? i=1 J j=1 JSD(P ij , Q ij ) (1) Different from  Wallace et al. (2020) , ?EI is an average over all outputs, attempting to capture an overall picture of system performance, 6 and our metric retains the directionality of increases and decreases, as opposed to collapsing them together. To facilitate interpretation of the ?EI metric, we offer a degenerate example. Given the case where all direction classifications are certain, and the probability distributions P ij and Q ij exist in the space of (1, 0, 0), (0, 1, 0), or (0, 0, 1), ?EI takes on the following values at various levels of consistency between P ij and Q ij for the input studies: 100% consistent ?EI = 0.0 50% consistent ?EI = 0.42 0% consistent ?EI = 0.83 In other words, in both the standard BART and LED setting, the evidence directions predicted in relation to the generated summary are slightly less than 50% consistent with the direction predictions produced relative to the gold summary. 

 Human evaluation & error analysis We randomly sample 150 reviews from the test set for manual evaluation. For each generated and gold summary, we annotate the primary effectiveness direction in the summary to the following classes: (i) increases: intervention has a positive effect on the outcome; (ii) no_change: no effect, or no difference between the intervention and the comparator; (iii) decreases: intervention has a negative effect on the outcome; (iv) insufficient: insufficient evidence is available; (v) skip: the summary is disfluent, off topic, or does not contain information on efficacy. Here, increases, no_change, and decreases correspond to the EI classes, while we introduce insufficient to describe cases where insufficient evidence is available on efficacy, and skip to describe data or generation failures. Two annotators provide labels, and agreement is computed over 50 reviews (agreement: 86%, Cohen's ?: 0.76). Of these, 17 gold summaries lack an efficacy statement, and are excluded from analysis. Tab. 7 shows the confusion matrix for the sample. Around 50% (67/133) of generated summaries have the same evidence direction as the gold summary. Most confusions happen between increases, no_change, and insufficient. Tab. 8 shows how individual studies can provide contradictory information, some supporting a positive effect for an intervention and some observing no or negative effects. EI may be able to capture some of the differences between these input studies. From observations on limited data: while studies  

 No effect or negative effect No survival benefit for CAP vs no-treatment control was found in this study. Therefore, adjuvant therapy with CAP should not be recommended for patients with resected early-stage non-small cell lung cancer . On the basis of this trial , adjuvant therapy with CAP should not be recommended for patients with resected stage I lung cancer . Table 8: Text from the input studies to  Petrelli and Barni (2013) , a review investigating the effectiveness of cisplatin-based (CAP) chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Input studies vary in their results, with some stating a positive effect for adjuvant chemotherapy, and some stating no survival benefit. with positive effect tend to have more EI predictions that were increases or decreases, those with no or negative effect tended to have predictions that were mostly no_change. However, more work is needed to better understand how to capture these directional relations and how to aggregate them into a coherent summary. 

 Related Work NLP for scientific text has been gaining interest recently with work spanning the whole NLP pipeline: datasets (S2ORC , CORD-19  (Wang et al., 2020b) ), pretrained transformer models (SciBERT , BioBERT , ClinicalBERT  (Huang et al., 2019) , SPECTER ), NLP tasks like NER  (Nye et al., 2018; Li et al., 2016) , relation extraction  (Jain et al., 2020; Luan et al., 2018; Kringelum et al., 2016) , QA  (Abacha et al., 2019) , NLI  (Romanov and Shivade, 2018; Khot et al., 2018) , summarization  (Cachola et al., 2020; Chandrasekaran et al., 2019) , claim verification  (Wadden et al., 2020) , and more. MS?2 adds a MDS dataset to the scientific document NLP literature. A small number of MDS datasets are available for other domains, including MultiNews  (Fabbri et al., 2019) , WikiSum , and Wikipedia Current Events  (Gholipour Ghalandari et al., 2020) . Most similar to MS?2 is MultiNews, where multiple news articles about the same event are summarized into one short paragraph. Aside from being in a different textual domain (scientific vs. newswire), one unique characteristic of MS?2 compared to existing datasets is that MS?2 input documents have contradicting evidence. Modeling in other domains has typically focused on straightforward applications of single-document summarization to the multi-document setting  (Lebanoff et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2018) , although some methods explicitly model multi-document structure using semantic graph approaches  (Baumel et al., 2018; Liu and Lapata, 2019; . In the systematic review domain, work has typically focused on information retrieval  (Boudin et al., 2010; Ho et al., 2016; Znaidi et al., 2015; Schoot et al., 2020) , extracting findings  (Lehman et al., 2019; DeYoung et al., 2020; Nye et al., 2020) , and quality assessment  (Marshall et al., 2015 (Marshall et al., , 2016 . Only recently in  Wallace et al. (2020)  and this work has consideration been made for approaching the entire system as a whole. We refer the reader to App. I for more context regarding the systematic review process. 

 Discussion Though MDS has been explored in the general domain, biomedical text poses unique challenges such as the need for domain-specific vocabulary and background knowledge. To support development of biomedical MDS systems, we release the MS?2 dataset. MS?2 contains summaries and documents derived from biomedical literature, and can be used to study literature review automation, a pressing real-world application of MDS. We define a seq2seq modeling task over this dataset, as well as a structured task that incorporates prior work on modeling biomedical text  (Nye et al., 2018; DeYoung et al., 2020) . We show that although generated summaries tend to be fluent and on-topic, they only agree with the evidence direction in gold summaries around half the time, leaving plenty of room for improvement. This observation holds both through our ?EI metric and through human evaluation of a small sample of generated summaries. Given that only 54% of study evidence directions agree with the evidence directions of their review, modeling contradiction in source documents may be key to improving upon existing summarization methods. Limitations Challenges in co-reference resolution and PICO extraction limit our ability to generate accurate PICO labels at the document level. Errors compound at each stage: PICO tagging, taking the product of Is and Os at the document level, and predicting EI direction. Pipeline improvements are needed to bolster overall system performance and increase our ability to automatically assess performance via automated metrics like ?EI. Relatedly, automated metrics for summarization evaluation can be difficult to interpret, as the intuition for each metric must be built up through experience. Though we attempt to facilitate understanding of ?EI by offering a degenerate example, more exploration is needed to understand how a practically useful system would perform on such a metric. Future work Though we demonstrate that seq2seq approaches are capable of producing fluent and on-topic review summaries, there are significant opportunities for improvement. Data improvements include improving the quality of summary targets and intermediate structured representations (PICO tags and EI direction). Another opportunity lies in linking to structured data in external sources such as various clinical trial databases 7,8,9 rather than relying solely on PICO tagging. For modeling, we are interested in pursuing joint retrieval and summarization approaches . We also hope to explicitly model the types of contradictions observed in Tab. 8, such that generated summaries can capture nuanced claims made by individual studies. 

 Conclusion Given increasing rates of publication, multidocument summarization, or the creation of literature reviews, has emerged as an important NLP task in science. The urgency for automation technologies has been magnified by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has led to both an accelerated speed of publication  (Horbach, 2020)  as well as proliferation of non-peer-reviewed preprints which may be of lower quality  (Lachapelle, 2020) . By releasing MS?2, we provide a MDS dataset that can help to address these challenges. Though we demonstrate that our MDS models can produce fluent text, our results show that there are significant outstanding challenges that remain unsolved, such as PICO tuple extraction, co-reference resolution, and evaluation of summary quality and faithfulness in the multi-document setting. We encourage others to use this dataset to better understand the challenges specific to MDS in the domain of biomedical text, and to push the boundaries on the real world task of systematic review automation. 
