title
Building end-to- end dialogue systems using generative hierarchical neural network models | the morning …
abstract
After reading a few of these papers on generative non-goal driven dialogue systems , I 've ended up both impressed at the early results and the direction they point in , as well as somewhat underwhelmed at the potential for this technology to be used in real-world applications in the short-term .
I 'm sure most startups will be building goal- driven chatbots rather than non-goal driven conversationalists anyway .
Perhaps blending the two will give the most natural feeling conversation in a goal- driven context in time .
There 's one counterpoint to this opinion , which is Microsoft 's Xiaoice .
In Xiaoice , Microsoft have managed to create a general conversational chatbot with the personality of a 17 - year old girl and over 40 million registered users .
Over tens of millions of conversations , Xiaoice averages 23 - turn chats ( whereas most AI personal assistants manage 1.5 - 2.5 turns ) .
From Nicky Cappella 's article in The Stack : Traditionally , users have come to expect machines to focus on task completion , but Xiaoice focuses on the conversation itself .
She memorizes and tracks users emotional states , and even offers a 33 - day breakup therapy course for people having relationship problems .
In December , Xiaoice even got a job in media , becoming a trainee anchor and reporting the weather on live TV on the Chinese program ' Morning News ' .
Take a look at this Xiaoice conversation as reported in The New York Times , and then compare it to sample 3 - turn conversations from today 's paper ( which by the way , still manages to create results that beat the competition under evaluation ) : ( Click to enlarge ) .
Let 's turn our attention to today 's paper now , which uses end-to - end training to build a dialogue system :
As of August 2015 , 26 percent of data in Xiaoice 's core chat software derives from her conversations with humans , leading Microsoft to conclude she has entered a self-learning and self- growing loop .
" Xiaoice , by and large in terms of development of arti cial intelligence , is already a huge milestone , " said Dr. Hsiao - Wuen Hon , who leads the project at Microsoft .
?
We believe that training such a model end-to -end to minimize a single objective function , and with minimum reliance on hand -crafted features , will yield superior performance in the long run .
Furthermore , we focus on models which can be trained ef ciently on large datasets and which are able to maintain state over long conversations . ?
13/03/2022 , 15:18
Building end-to- end dialogue systems using generative hierarchical neural network models | the morning ?
https://blog.acolyer.org/2016/07/01/building-end-to-end-dialogue-systems-using-generative-hierarchical-neural-network-models/ 3/6
For me there are two main takeaways .
First , the use of a hierarchy of RNNs using one to model the sequence of utterances in the dialogue , and one to model the sequences of tokens in an individual turn .
And secondly the value of bootstrapping the model using external data , which makes a signi cant difference to model performance .
The value of bootstrapping Bootstrapping uses two sources of data : general word knowledge , and domain knowledge .
In order to incorporate a general understanding of the meaning of words , the word embeddings are initialized using learned word embeddings from the Google News dataset ( about 100 billion words ) that have been trained using Word2Vec .
A second level of bootstrapping is to incorporate some general domain knowledge from a large ( non-dialogue ) corpus covering similar topics and types of interactions .
For the MovieTriples dataset that the authors intend their bot to converse over , they use the Question - Answer SubTle corpus which contains about 5.5 M Q-A pairs constructed from movie subtitles .
Bootstrapping gives signi cant gains in both perplexity and error-rate measures .
The biggest gain is from SubTle , " we believe that this is because it trains all model parameters , unlike bootstrapping from Word2Vec , which only trains the work embeddings . "
Hierarchical models Sordoni et al. used a hierarchical recurrent encoder-decoder architecture ( HRED ) for web query suggestions .
In general , we nd that the gains due to architectural choice are smaller than those obtained by bootstrapping , which can be explained by the fact that we are in a regime of relatively little training data compared to other natural language processing tasks , such as machine translation , and hence we would expect the differences to grow with more training data and longer dialogues .
?
The sheer size of the dataset ensures that the embeddings contain rich semantic information about each word .
?
We construct an arti cial dialogue dataset by taking each { Q , A } pair as a twoturn dialog D = { U and use this to pretrain the model .
? 1 = Q , U = A } 2 13/03/2022 , 15:18
Building end-to- end dialogue systems using generative hierarchical neural network models | the morning ?
https://blog.acolyer.org/2016/07/01/building-end-to-end-dialogue-systems-using-generative-hierarchical-neural-network-models/ 4/6
An encoder RNN maps each utterance to an utterance vector ( which is just the hidden state once the last token of the utterance has been processed ) .
A higher level context RNN keeps track of past utterances by iteratively processing each utterance vector .
The hidden state of the context RNN therefore represents a summary of the dialogue up to the current turn .
A decoder RNN takes the hidden state of the context RNN and produces a probability distribution over the tokens in the next utterance .
In the original framework , HRED predicts the next web query given the queries already submitted by the user .
The history of past submitted queries is considered as a sequence at two levels : a sequence of words for each web query and a sequence of queries .
HRED models this hierarchy of sequences with two RNNs : one at the word level and one at the query level .
We make a similar assumption , namely , that a dialogue can be seen as a sequence of utterances which , in turn , are sequences of tokens .
?
For modeling dialogues , we expect the HRED model to be superior to the standard RNN model for two reasons .
First , because the context RNN allows the model to represent a form of common ground between speakers , e.g. to represent topics and concepts shared between the speakers using a distributed vector representation , which we hypothesize to be important for building an effective dialogue system ( Clark and Brennan 1991 ) .
Second , because the number of computational steps between utterances is reduced .
This makes the ?
13/03/2022 , 15:18
Building end-to- end dialogue systems using generative hierarchical neural network models | the morning ?
https://blog.acolyer.org/2016/07/01/building-end-to-end-dialogue-systems-using-generative-hierarchical-neural-network-models/ 5/6
The authors use one other trick that we also saw yesterday , a bidirectional RNN .
The problem is that for longer utterances , the hidden state at the end of the utterance will not re ect as strongly tokens at the beginning of the utterance .
So by running one forward chain and one backward chain ( reversing the tokens ) and combining the results ( e.g. by concatenation ) we can give equal weighting to the start and end of an utterance .
The problem of generic responses
The model has a tendency to produce generic responses such as " I do n't know " and " I 'm sorry . "
This problem did not occur with generated stochastic samples , which contained a large variety of topic-speci c words .
There are several possible explanations for this behavior .
Firstly , due to data scarcity , the models may only have learned to predict the most frequent utterances .
Since the dialogues are inherently ambiguous and multi-modal , predicting them accurately would require more data than other natural language processing tasks .
Secondly , the majority of tokens were punctuation marks and pronouns .
Since every token is weighted equally during training , the gradient signal of the neural networks is dominated by these punctuation and pronoun tokens .
This makes it hard for the neural networks to learn topicspeci c embeddings and even harder to predict diverse utterances ?
Finally , the context of a triple may be too short .
In that case , the models should bene t from longer contexts and by conditioning on other information sources , such as semantic and visual information .
? < PREVIOUS Incorporating ( a ) copying mechanism in sequence to sequence learning NEXT > Natural language understanding ( almost ) from scratch a random walk through Computer Science research , by Adrian Colyer Made delightfully fast by Building end-to - end dialogue systems using generative hierarchical neural network models JULY 1 , 2016 ~ ADRIAN COLYER
Building end-to - end dialogue systems using generative hierarchical neural network models Serban et al .
AAAI 2016
