title
abstract
Improving power and robustness
The opening challenge certainly seems like a stretch on the surface : it is to not just match human performance in spoken dialog , but to exceed it !
At rst glance that does n't seem possible - do n't humans de ne what it means to converse naturally ?
And it certainly seems quite some way away given the current state - of - the - art we 've been looking at .
But the authors make a compelling case for " superhuman " dialog :
This possibility can be appreciated by listening to recordings of people in live conversation ( especially yourself ) and noting how inef cient and sometimes ineffective they are .
While some dis uencies and awkwardnesses can be functional , to convey nuances or adjust the pace for the sake of the interlocutor , many are just regrettable .
This is obvious in retrospect , when one can replay the recording to glean every detail of the interlocutors ' behavior and can take
The second challenge is to layer different personalities or behaviour styles on top of the same basic functionality , and the third challenge is to enrich interaction behaviour .
A good example of this is backchanneling ( feedback given while someone else is talking " ok " , " yeah " , " uh- huh " and so-on ) .
In human-human dialog a 2012 study by Ward et al.
uncovered 12 different activity types strongly affecting the probability of a back - channel ( rambling , expressing sympathy , etc. ) .
This 12 types all had independent manifestations .
Challenge number four is to " synthesize multifunctional behaviours " - by which the authors mean that instead of making independent decisions about ( for example ) , whether to backchannel , what back - channel word to use , and which prosodic form to use , it may be better to make these decisions jointly and optimize them together .
The next challenge is to integrate both learned and designed behaviours .
time .
Future dialog systems , not subject to human cognitive limitations , might be able to do this in real time : to sense better , consider more factors , plan dialog steps further ahead , and so on , to attain superhuman charm and produce superhuman dialog .
Consider for example backchanneling behavior .
This is a prototypical interactive behavior , probably the best studied one , and one already used successfully in several systems which backchannel at appropriate times in response to user speech ?.
?
In general , there is a lot more going on in human interaction than we are modeling today .
?
Today even the most interactive systems have a xed skeleton specifying the overall dialog ow .
Within this a few decision points may be left underspeci ed , for subsequent lling in with more data-driven decision rules .
While ultimately dialog system behaviors might be entirely learned from data , for the foreseeable future interactive systems will include both learned and designed behaviors ?
We see an opportunity to explore new ways of integrating learned and designed behaviors , and in particular to develop architectures which give a larger role to behaviors learned from corpora .
The nal challenge in this section applies to spoken dialog systems , and concerns the evolution of dialog state tracking from a discrete turn - based process to a continuous process .
" People continuously track the current state of the dialog , not only when the other is speaking , but when speaking themselves ?
while implementing continuous state tracking wo n't be easy , the potential value is signi cant . "
This tracking can include elements such as gaze and gestures .
You can capture some of the importance of this in the difference between a conference call and an in-person conversation .
Reducing development costs
There are two challenges presented in this section .
Firstly , the ability to compose behaviour speci cations ( and hence reuse them ) .
The second challenge is to gure out ways to bypass the dearth of labelled training data and increase our ability to use completely unsupervised methods .
Deepening understanding
The nal two challenges are to develop evaluation methods that give more actionable feedback on the performance of different parts of the system and its conversational style , and to nd a way to engage social scientists and their ndings in the development of dialog systems :
For example , imagining that we have developed a general policy for choosing the next interview question , a general policy for showing empathy , and a general policy for supportive turn taking , we could imagine that these could be composed to produce a system capable of effective , natural , and warm rstencounter dialogs .
?
The a random walk through Computer Science research , by Adrian Colyer Made delightfully fast by Ten challenges in highly - interactive dialog systems JULY 8 , 2016 ~ ADRIAN COLYER
Ten challenges in highly - interactive dialog systems Ward & De Vault AAAI 2015
It 's time to end our look into the technology behind chatbots and dialog systems - there 's a huge crop of SIGMOD 2016 papers waiting to be explored for starters !
To end the mini-series , today I 've chosen a 2015 position paper from Ward and De Vault detailing ten key challenges ( and opportunities ) they see for future interactive dialog systems .
The emphasis here is on spoken dialog , but there 's something for everyone .
The challenges are broken down into three main areas : improving power and robustness ; reducing development costs ; and deepening understanding .
the time to think about what should have been said and how , at each point in ?
MENU ? the morning paper 13/03/2022 , 15:19
Ten challenges in highly - interactive dialog systems | the morning paper https://blog.acolyer.org/2016/07/08/ten-challenges-in-highly-interactive-dialog-systems/ 2/4
highly - interactive dialog systems | the morning paper https://blog.acolyer.org/2016/07/08/ten-challenges-in-highly-interactive-dialog-systems/ 3/4
behaviors in today 's dialog systems are seldom based on the ndings of social scientists , and conversely , the results of dialog systems research are rarely noticed by them .
One reason is that the most interactive aspects of dialog systems are often not fully understandable : they may work , but it is hard to know why .
There is a need for more comprehensible models .
Ways to achieve this might include deeper analysis of what a learned model really has learned , more use of modeling techniques which are intrinsically more understandable , and more use of declarative representations of behaviors rather than decision algorithms .
Terms of use - Privacy - Report a bug 13/03/2022 , 15:19
Ten challenges in highly - interactive dialog systems | the morning paper POSTED IN UNCATEGORIZED MACHINE LEARNING < PREVIOUS Multi-domain dialog state tracking using recurrent neural networks NEXT > Realtime data processing at Facebook Start a conversation ... ? ? powered by ?
https://blog.acolyer.org/2016/07/08/ten-challenges-in-highly-interactive-dialog-systems/ 4/4
