title
21/02/2022, 21:35 Day 186: NLP Papers Summary -Contextualizing Citations for Scientific Summarization using Word Embed…

abstract


Citation text are texts that highlight contributions of the referenced paper. Existing work has shown that citation text are useful for many downstream tasks such as search and summarisation. The problem with citation text is that it often lacks context such as methodology, assumptions or conditions for the obtained results. 

 Contextualising Citations Our approach extends language models by incorporating word embeddings and domain ontology. The purpose of the language model is to rank a document (reference spans) according to the query (the citation text). We used embeddings to score documents that are semantically similar to the chosen query. We also used domain ontologies to capture information that might not be included in the embeddings. The domain ontologies can extend the embedding based language models as follows:  

 Results 

 INTRINSIC EVALUATION The results are displayed in the table 1 below. As shown, our model of biomedical embeddings with domain knowledge interpolation achieved the best performance in most of the evaluation metrics. This indicates that our models are effective in many different aspects. We found that general embedding does not provide much advantage when compared to the best performing baseline model. However, when we used the domain-speci c embeddings, we observed a 10% c-F improvement over the best performing baseline model. This is as expected as the biomedical embeddings are better at capturing the word relations in biomedical context. This is illustrated by table 2 where we showcase top relevant words for the word "expression" provided by the two types of embeddings. The last two rows of table 1 showcase the bene t of including domain ontologies and we found that interpolation yielded a stronger improvement than retro tting. ? ? https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/07/04/day-186-nlp-papers-summary-contextualizing-citations-for-scientific-summarization-using-wor? 4/9 Our models also correlate well with human annotations. As shown in table 3 below, when the human precision is high (upper quartiles), our system performs better in c-F metric with higher con dence (lower standard deviation).  

 EXTERNAL EVALUATION 

 Citation 1. Retro tting. We used MESH and Protein Ontologies (PO) to modify word embeddings and pull synonymous words closer together 2. Interpolating. We directly modi ed the language model and incorporate the performance of training using the Wikipedia embeddings and biomedical embeddings. In addition, we also compare the performance of biomedical embeddings with retro tting and with interpolating domain knowledge. In terms of evaluation metrics on the quality of extracted citation contexts (intrinsic evaluation), we have evaluation metrics for assessing the quality of retrieved contexts for each citation from multiple aspects: ? ? 21/02/2022, 21:35 Day 186: NLP Papers Summary -Contextualizing Citations for Scientific Summarization using Word Embed? https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/07/04/day-186-nlp-papers-summary-contextualizing-citations-for-scientific-summarization-using-wor? 3/9 1. Character offset overlaps between retrieved contexts and human annotations in terms of precision, recall, and F-score 2. nDCG scores where we treat any partial overlaps with the goal standard as correct context 3. ROUGE-N scores to measure content similarity between retrieved contexts and gold standard 4. Character precision at K 

 -based summarisation can effectively capture different contributions and aspects of a research paper by using the citation texts. Here, we compare the summarisation quality between no contextualisation and our proposed contextualisation approaches. We have multiple baseline models and our evaluation metric is ROUGE scores: displayed below. The "No context" showcase the performance of all summarisation approach on solely the citations and without any context. All the other rows are different summarisation algorithms on citation text with our contextualisation methods. Our ? ? 21/02/2022, 21:35 Day 186: NLP Papers Summary -Contextualizing Citations for Scientific Summarization using Word Embed? https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/07/04/day-186-nlp-papers-summary-contextualizing-citations-for-scientific-summarization-using-wor? 5/9 Ryan Data Scientist best performing model is biomedical embeddings with domain knowledge interpolation, which signi cantly improves the quality of summaries in terms of ROUGE scores. This showcase that the intrinsic quality of citation contextualisation has a direct impact on the end-
