title
Day 114 : NLP Papers Summary -A Summarization System For Scienti c Documents Objective and Contribution
abstract
Proposed IBM Science Summariser for summarising computer science research papers .
The system can identify different scenarios such as discovery , exploration , and understanding of scienti c documents .
The proposed system summarises research papers in two ways : either in free-text query or by choosing categorised values such as scienti c tasks , datasets , and more .
The proposed system ingested 270,000 papers .
The IBM Science Summariser produces summaries that focuses on user 's queries ( queryfocused summarisation ) .
It summarises various sections of the paper independently , allowing users to focus on relevant sections only .
This allows for the interaction between user 's queries and various entities in the paper .
Human Evaluation EVALUATION SETUP
We approached 12 authors and asked them to evaluate summaries of two papers they have co-authored .
This gives us a total of 24 papers .
For each paper , we produced two types of summaries : section - based summary and section - agnostic summary ( treating the paper content as at text ) .
This is for us to assess the bene t of section - bases summarisation .
This gives us a total of 48 summaries to be evaluated .
The authors are required to perform 3 tasks per summary : 1 . For each sentence , determine whether the sentence should be included as part of the summary ( binary measure of the precision ) 2 . How well each sections of the paper is covered in the summary ( measure of recall , 1 - 5 scale , 3 being good )
3 . Evaluate the overall quality of the summary ( 1 - 5 scale , 3 being good )
RESULTS
The results are shown in the gure below .
For task 2 , section - based summary scored higher in 68 % of the papers .
The average score for section - based summaries is 3.32 which highlights the quality of section - based summaries .
Conclusion and Future Work
As future work , the IBM Science Summariser plan on adding support for more entities and ingest more papers .
More qualitative study is being conducted to assess its usage and quality of summaries , including automatic evaluation of summaries .
Source : https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-3036.pdf ? Figure Figure below showcase the user-interface of the IBM Science Summariser .
Users pose their queries ( or use the lters on metadata elds ) .
Relevant papers are then returned with summarisation results .
Each section is clearly shown with entities accurately highlighted .
