title
Structure - Aware Abstractive Conversation Summarization via Discourse and Action Graphs
abstract
Abstractive conversation summarization has received much attention recently .
However , these generated summaries often suffer from insufficient , redundant , or incorrect content , largely due to the unstructured and complex characteristics of human-human interactions .
To this end , we propose to explicitly model the rich structures in conversations for more precise and accurate conversation summarization , by first incorporating discourse relations between utterances and action triples ( " WHO - DOING - WHAT " ) in utterances through structured graphs to better encode conversations , and then designing a multi-granularity decoder to generate summaries by combining all levels of information .
Experiments show that our proposed models outperform state - of- theart methods and generalize well in other domains in terms of both automatic evaluations and human judgments .
We have publicly released our code at https://github.com/ GT -SALT / Structure -Aware -BART .
Introduction Online interaction has become an indispensable component of everyday life and people are increasingly using textual conversations to exchange ideas , make plans , and share information .
However , it is time - consuming to recap and grasp all the core content within every complex conversation ( Gao et al. , 2020 ; Feng et al. , 2020 ) .
As a result , how to organize massive everyday interactions into natural , concise , and informative text , i.e. , abstractive conversation summarization , starts to gain importance .
Significant progress has been made on abstractive summarization for structured document via pointer generator ( See et al. , 2017 ) , reinforcement methods ( Paulus et al. , 2018 ; and pre-trained models ( Liu and Lapata , 2019 ; Lewis et al. , 2020 ; . Despite the huge success , it is challenging to directly apply document models to summarize conversations , due to ( Gliwa et al. , 2019 ) .
The annotated summary is Simon was on the phone before , so he did n't here Helen calling .
Simon will fetch Helen some tissues .
a set of inherent differences between conversations and documents ( Gliwa et al. , 2019 ) .
First , speaker interruptions like repetitions , false-starts , and hesitations are frequent in conversations ( Sacks et al. , 1978 ) , and key information resides in different portions of a conversation .
These unstructured properties pose challenges for models to focus on salient contents that are necessary for generating both abstractive and informative summaries .
Second , there is more than one speaker in conversations and people interact with each other in different language styles .
The complex interactions among multiple speakers make it harder for mod-els to identify and associate speakers with correct actions so as to generate factual summaries .
In order to summarize the unstructured and complex conversations , a growing body of research has been conducted , such as transferring document summarization methods to conversation settings ( Shang et al. , 2018 ; Gliwa et al. , 2019 ) , adopting hierarchical models , or incorporating conversation structures like topic segmentation ( Liu et al. , 2019 b ; Chen and Yang , 2020 ) , dialogue acts ( Goo and Chen , 2018 ) , and conversation stages ( Chen and Yang , 2020 ) .
However , current approaches still face challenges in terms of succinctness and faithfulness , as most prior studies ( i ) fail to explicitly model dependencies between utterances which can help identify salient portions of conversations ( Bui et al. , 2009 ) , and ( ii ) lack structured representations to learn the associations between speakers , actions and events .
We argue that these rich linguistic structures associated with conversations are key components towards generating abstractive and factual conversation summaries .
To this end , we present a structure - aware sequence - to- sequence model , in which we equip abstractive conversation summarization models with rich conversation structures through two types of graphs : discourse relation graph and action graph .
Discourse relation graphs are constructed based on dependency - based discourse relations ( Kirschner et al. , 2012 ; Stone et al. , 2013 ; Asher et al. , 2016 ; Qin et al. , 2017 ) between intertwined utterances , where each Elementary Discourse Unit ( EDU ) is one single utterance and they are linked through 16 different types of relations ( Asher et al. , 2016 ) .
As shown in Figure 1 ( a ) , highly related utterances are linked based on discourse relations like Question Answer Pairs , Comment and Explanation .
Explicitly modeling these utterances relations in conversations can aid models in recognizing key content for succinct and informative summarization .
Action graphs are constructed as the " WHO - DOING - WHAT " triplets in conversations which express socially situated identities and activities ( Gee , 2014 ) .
For instance , in Figure 1 ( b ) , the action graph provides explicit information between Simon , fetch , and tissues for the utterance it is Simon who will fetch the tissues , making models less likely to generate summaries with wrong references ( e.g. , Helen will fetch the tissues ) .
To sum up , our contributions are : ( 1 ) We pro-pose to utilize discourse relation graphs and action graphs to better encode conversations for conversation summarization .
( 2 ) We design structureaware sequence - to-sequence models to combine these structured graphs and generate summaries with the help of a novel multi-granularity decoder .
( 3 ) We demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed methods through experiments on a largescale conversation summarization dataset , SAM - Sum ( Gliwa et al. , 2019 ) . ( 4 ) We further show that our structure - aware models can generalize well in new domains such as debate summarization .
Related Work Document Summarization Compared to extractive document summarization ( Gupta and Lehal , 2010 ; Narayan et al. , 2018 ; Liu and Lapata , 2019 ) , abstractive document summarization is generally considered more challenging and has received more attention .
Various methods have been designed to tackle abstractive document summarization like sequence - to-sequence models ( Rush et al. , 2015 ) , pointer generators ( See et al. , 2017 ) , reinforcement learning methods ( Paulus et al. , 2018 ; and pre-trained models ( Lewis et al. , 2020 ; .
To generate faithful abstractive document summaries ( Maynez et al. , 2020 ) , graphbased models were introduced recently such as extracting entity types ( Fernandes et al. , 2018 ; , leveraging knowledge graphs Zhu et al. , 2020a ) or designing extra fact correction modules .
Inspired by these graph- based methods , we also construct action graphs for generating more factual conversation summaries .
Conversation Summarization Extractive dialogue summarization ( Murray et al. , 2005 ) has been studied extensively via statistical machine learning methods such as skip-chain CRFs ( Galley , 2006 ) , SVM with LDA models ( Wang and Cardie , 2013 ) , and multi-sentence compression algorithms ( Shang et al. , 2018 ) .
Such methods struggled with generating succinct , fluent , and natural summaries , especially when the key information needs to be aggregated from multiple first-person point- of- view utterances ( Song et al. , 2020 ) .
Abstractive conversation summarization overcomes these issues by designing hierarchical models , incorporating commonsense knowledge ( Feng et al. , 2020 ) , or leveraging conversational structures like dialogue acts ( Goo and Chen , 2018 ) , key point sequences ( Liu et al. , 2019a ) , topic segments ( Liu et al. , 2019 b ; and stage developments ( Chen and Yang , 2020 ) .
Some recent research has also utilized discourse relations as input features in classifiers to detect important content in conversations ( Murray et al. , 2006 ; Bui et al. , 2009 ; Qin et al. , 2017 ) .
However , current models still have not explicitly utilized the dependencies between different utterances , making models hard to leverage long- range dependencies and utilize these salient utterances .
Moreover , less attention has been paid to identify the actions of different speakers and how they interact with or refer to each other , leading to unfaithful summarization with incorrect references or wrong reasoning ( Gliwa et al. , 2019 ) .
To fill these gaps , we propose to explicitly model actions within utterances , and relations between utterances in conversations in a structured way , by using discourse relation graphs and action graphs and further combining these through relational graph encoders and multigranularity decoders for abstractive conversation summarization .
Methods
To generate abstractive and factual summaries from unstructured conversations , we propose to model structural signals in conversations by first constructing discourse relation graphs and action graphs ( Section 3.1 ) , and then encoding the graphs together with conversations ( Section 3.2 ) as well as incorporating these different levels of information in the decoding stage through a multi-granularity decoder ( Section 3.3 ) to summarize given conversations .
The overall architecture is shown in Figure 2 .
Structured Graph Construction
This section describes how to construct the discourse relation graphs and action graphs .
Formally , for a given conversation C = {u 0 , ... , u m } with m utterances , we construct discourse relation graph G D = ( V D , E D ) , where V D is the set of nodes representing Elementary Discourse Units ( EDUs ) , and E D is the adjacent matrix that describes the relations between EDUs , and action graph G A = ( V A , E A ) , where V A is the set of nodes representing " WHO " , " DOING " and " WHAT " arguments , and E A is the adjacent matrix to link " WHO - DOING - WHAT " triples .
Discourse Relation Graph Utterances from different speakers do not occur in isolation ; instead , they are related within the context of discourse ( Murray et al. , 2006 ; Qin et al. , 2017 ) , which has been shown effective for dialogue understanding like identifying the decisions in multi-party dialogues ( Bui et al. , 2009 ) and detecting salient content in email conversations ( McKeown et al. , 2007 ) .
Although current attention - based neural models are supposed to , or might implicitly , learn certain relations between utterances , they often struggle to focus on many informative utterances ( Chen and Yang , 2020 ; Song et al. , 2020 ) and fail to address long- range dependencies ( Xu et al. , 2020 ) , especially when there are frequent interruptions .
As a result , explicitly incorporating the discourse relations will help neural summarization models better encode the unstructured conversations and concentrate on the most salient utterances to generate more informative and less redundant summaries .
To do so , we view each utterance as an EDU and use the discourse relation types defined in Asher et al . ( 2016 ) .
We first pre-train a discourse parsing model ( Shi and Huang , 2019 ) on a humanannotated multiparty dialogue corpus ( Asher et al. , 2016 ) , with 0.775 F1 score on link predictions and 0.557 F1 score on relation classifications , which are comparable to the state - of - the - art results ( Shi and Huang , 2019 ) .
We then utilize this pre-trained parser to predict the discourse relations within conversations in our SAMSum corpus ( Gliwa et al. , 2019 ) .
After predictions , there are 138,554 edges identified in total and 8.48 edges per conversation .
The distribution of these predicted discourse relation types is : Comment ( 19.3 % ) , Clarification Question ( 15.2 % ) , Elaboration ( 2.3 % ) , Acknowledgement ( 8.4 % ) , Continuation ( 10.1 % ) , Explanation ( 2.8 % ) , Conditional ( 0.2 % ) , Question Answer Pair ( 21.5 % ) , Alternation ( 0.3 % ) , Q-Elab ( 2.5 % ) , Result ( 5.5 % ) , Background ( 0.4 % ) , Narration ( 0.4 % ) , Correction ( 0.4 % ) , Parallel ( 0.9 % ) , and Contrast ( 1.0 % ) .
Then for each conversation , we construct a discourse relation graph G D = ( V D , E D ) , where V D [ k ] represents the k-th utterance .
E D [ i ] [ j ]
= r if there is a link from the i-th utterance to the j-th one with discourse relation r.
Action Graph
The " who - doing - what " triples from utterances can provide explicit visualizations of speakers and their actions , the key to understanding concrete details happened in conversations ( Moser , 2001 ; Gee , 2014 ; Sacks et al. , 1978 ) .
Simply relying on neural models to identify this information from conversations often fail to produce factual characterizations of concrete details happened ( Cao et al. , 2018 ; .
To this end , we extract " WHO - DOING - WHAT " triples from utterances and construct action graphs for conversation summarization Huang et al. , 2020 b , a ) .
Specifically , we first transform the first-person point- of- view utterances to its thirdperson point- of- view forms based on simple rules : ( i ) substituting first / second-person pronouns with the names of current speaker or surrounding speakers and ( ii ) replacing third - person pronouns based on coreference clusters in conversations detected by the Stanford CoreNLP ( Manning et al. , 2014 ) .
For example , an utterance " I'll bring it to you to -morrow " from Amanda to Jerry will be transformed into " Amanda 'll bring cakes to Jerry tomorrow " .
Then we extract " WHO - DOING - WHAT " ( subjectpredicate -object ) triples from transformed conversations using the open information extraction ( Ope - nIE ) systems 1 ( Angeli et al. , 2015 ) .
We then construct the Action Graph G A = ( V A , E A ) from the extracted triples by taking arguments ( " WHO " , " DOING " , or " WHAT " ) as nodes in V A , and connect them with edge E A [ i ] [ j ] = 1 if they are adjacent in one " WHO - DOING - WHAT " triple .
Encoder Given a conversation and its corresponding discourse relation graph and action graph , we utilize an utterance encoder and two graph encoders , to obtain its hidden representations shown in Figure 2 ( a ) .
Utterance Encoder
We initialize our utterance encoder F U ( . ) with a pre-trained encoder , i.e. , BART - base ( Lewis et al. , 2020 ) , and encode tokens {x i,0 , ... , x i, l } in an utterance u i into its hidden representation : {h U i,0 , ... , h U i, l } = F U ( { x i,0 , ... , x i , l } ) ( 1 ) Here we add a special token x i ,0 =< S> at the beginning of each utterance to represent it .
Graph Encoder Node Initialization
For discourse relation graph , we employ the output embeddings of the special tokens x i,0 from the utterance encoder , i.e. , h U i ,0 , to initialize the i-th node v D i in G D .
We use a one- hot embedding layer to encode the relations E D [ i ] [ j ] = e D i , j between utterance i and j .
For action graph , we first utilize F U ( . ) to encode each token in nodes v A i and then average their output embeddings as their initial representations .
Structured Graph Attention Network Based on Graph Attention Network ( Veli?kovi ?
et al. , 2018 ) , we utilize these relations between nodes to encode each node v D i in G D or v A i in G A through : ? ij = exp ? a T [ Wv i Wv j W e e i , j ] k?N i exp ( ?
( a T [ Wv i Wv k W e e i , k ] ) )
Through two graph encoders F D ( . , .) and F A ( . , . ) , we then obtain the hidden representations of these nodes as : h i = ?( j?N i ? ij Wv j ) Dataset Split # Conv # {h D 0 , ... , h D m } = F D ( { v D 0 , ... , v D m } , E D ) ( 2 ) {h A 0 , ... , h A n } = F A ( { x A 0 , ... , x A n } , E A ) ( 3 )
Multi-Granularity Decoder Different levels of encoded representations are then aggregated via our multi-granularity decoder to generate summaries as shown in Figure 2 ( b ) .
With s ?
1 previously generated tokens y 1 , ... , y s?1 , our decoder G ( . ) predicts the l-th token via : ? = G(y 1:s?1 , F U ( C ) , F D ( G D ) , F A ( G A ) ) ( 4 ) P (? s |y <s , C , G D , G A ) = Softmax ( W p ? ) ( 5 ) To better incorporate the information in constructed graphs , different from the traditional pretrained BART model ( Lewis et al. , 2020 ) , we improve the BART transformer decoder with two extra cross attentions ( Discourse Attention and Action Attention ) added to each decoder layer , which attends to the encoded node representations in discourse relation graphs and action graphs .
In each decoder layer , after performing the original cross attentions over every token in utterances {h U i,0:l } and getting the utterance -attended representation x U , multi-granularity decoder then conducts cross attentions over nodes {h D 0 : m } and {h A 0:n } that are encoded from graph encoders in parallel , to obtain the discourse-attended representation x D and action -attended representation x A .
These two attended vectors are then combined into a structureaware representation x S , through a feed-forward network for further forward passing in the decoder .
To alleviate the negative impact of randomly initialized graph encoders and cross attentions over graphs on pre-trained BART decoders at early stages and accelerate the learning of newlyintroduced modules during training , we apply ReZero ( Bachlechner et al. , 2020 ) to the residual connection after attending to graphs in each decoder layer : xS = x U + ?x S ( 6 ) where ? is one trainable parameter instead of a fixed value 1 , which modulates updates from cross attentions over graphs .
Training During training , we seek to minimize the cross entropy and use the teacher - forcing strategy ( Bengio et al. , 2015 ) : L = ? log P ( ? l |y < l , C , G D , G A ) ( 7 ) 4 Experiments
Datasets
We trained and evaluated our models on a conversation summarization dataset SAMSum ( Gliwa et al. , 2019 ) covering messenger - like conversations about daily topics , such as arranging meetings and discussing events .
We also showed the generalizability of our models on the Argumentative Dialogue Summary Corpus ( ADSC ) ( Misra et al. , 2015 ) , a debate summarization corpus .
The data statistics of two datasets were shown in Table 1 , with the discourse relation types distributions in the Appendix .
Baselines
We compare our methods with several baselines : ? Pointer Generator ( See et al. , 2017 ) :
We followed the settings in Gliwa et al . ( 2019 ) and used special tokens to separate each utterance .
?
Transformer ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) :
We trained transformer seq2seq models following the OpenNMT ( Klein et al. , 2017 ) . ? D-HGN ( Feng et al. , 2020 ) incorporated commonsense knowledge from ConceptNet ( Liu and Singh , 2004 ) for dialogue summarization .
? BART ( Lewis et al. , 2020 ) :
We utilized BART 2 , and separated utterances by a special token .
? Multi-View Seq2Seq ( Chen and Yang , 2020 ) utilized topic and stage views on top of BART for summarizing conversations .
Here we implemented it based on BART - base models .
Implementation Details
We used the BART - base model to initialize our sequence - to-sequence model for training in all experiments .
For parameters in the original BART encoder / decoder , we followed the default settings and set the learning rate 3e - 5 with 120 warm - up steps .
For graph encoders , we set the number of hidden dimensions as 768 , the number of attention heads as 2 , the number of layers as 2 , and the dropout rate as 0.2 .
For graph cross attentions added to BART decoder layers , we set the number of attention heads as 2 .
The weights ? in ReZero residual connections were initialized with 1 .
The learning rate for parameters in newly added modules was 3e - 4 with 60 warm - up steps .
All experiments were performed on GeForce RTX 2080 Ti ( 11 GB memory ) .
Results on In-Domain Corpus Automatic Evaluation
We evaluated all the models with the widely used automatic metric , All model variants of S-BART received significantly higher ratings than BART ( student t-test , p < 0.05 ) .
ROUGE scores ( Lin and Och , 2004 ) 3 , and reported ROUGE -1 , ROUGE - 2 , and ROUGE -L in Table 2 .
We found that , compared to simple sequence - to-sequence models ( Pointer Generator and Transformer ) , incorporating extra information such as commonsense knowledge from ConceptNet ( D- HGN ) increased the ROUGE metrics .
When equipped with pre-trained models and simple conversation structures such as topics and conversation stages , Multi-View Seq2Seq boosted ROUGE scores .
Incorporating discourse relation graphs or action graphs helped the performances of summarization , suggesting the effectiveness of explicitly modeling relations between utterances and the associations between speakers and actions within utterances .
Combining two different structured graphs produced better ROUGE scores compared to previous state - of - the - art methods and our base models , with an increase of 2.0 % on ROUGE - 1 , 4.3 % on ROUGE - 2 , and 1.2 % on ROUGE -L compared to our base model , BART .
This indicates that , our structure - aware models with discourse and action graphs could help abstractive conversation summarization , and these two graphs complemented each other in generating better summaries .
Human Evaluation
We conducted human evaluation to qualitatively evaluate the generated summaries .
Specifically , we asked annotators from Amazon Mechanical Turk to score a set of randomly sampled 100 generated summaries from ground - truth , BART and our structured models , using a Likert scale from 1 ( worst ) to 5 ( best ) in terms of factualness ( e.g. , associates actions with the right actors ) , succinctness ( e.g. , does not contain redundant information ) , and informativeness ( e.g. , covers the most important content ) ( Feng et al. , 2020 ; .
To increase annotation quality , we required turkers to have a 98 % approval rate and at least 10,000 approved tasks for their previous work .
Each message was rated by three workers .
The scores for each summary were averaged .
The Intra-Class Correlation was 0.543 , showing moderate agreement ( Koo and Li , 2016 ) .
As shown in Table 4 , S- BART that utilized structured information from discourse relation graphs and action graphs generated significantly better summaries with respect to factualness , succinctness , and informativeness .
This might because that the incorporation of structured information such as discourse relations helped S- BART to recognize the salient parts in conversations , and thus improve the succinctness and informativeness over BART .
Modeling the connections between speakers and actions greatly helped generate more factual summaries than the baselines , e.g. , with an increase of 0.27 from BART to S-BART w.
Action .
Results on Out-Of-Domain Corpus
To investigate the generalizability of our structureaware models , we then tested the S-BART model trained on SAMSum corpus directly on the debate summarization domain ( ADSC Corpus ( Misra et al. , 2015 ) ) in a zero-shot setting .
Besides the differences in topics , utterances in debate conversations were generally longer and include more action triples ( 37.20 vs 6.81 as shown in Table 1 ) and fewer participants .
The distribution of discourse relation types also differed a lot across different
As shown in Table 3 , our single graph models S-BART w.
Discourse and S-BART w.
Action boosted ROUGE scores compared to BART , suggesting that utilizing structures can also increase the generalizability of conversation summarization methods .
However , contrary to in- domain results in Table 2 , action graphs led to much more gains than discourse graphs .
This indicated that when domain shifts , action triples were most robust in terms of zero-shot setups ; differences in discourse relation distributions could limit such generalization .
Consistent with in- domain scenarios , our S- BART w .
Discourse&Action achieved better results , with an increase of 66.2 % on ROUGE -1 , 373.4 % on ROUGE - 2 , and 82.2 % on ROUGE -L over BART .
Ablation Studies
This part conducted ablation studies to show the effectiveness of structured graphs in our S-BART .
The Quality of Discourse Relation Graphs
We showed how the quality of discourse relation graphs affected the performances of conversation summarization in Table 5 .
Specifically , we compared the ROUGE scores of S-BART using our constructed discourse relation graphs ( S- BART w. Discourse Graph ) and S-BART using randomly generated discourse relation graphs S- BART w. Random Graph where both connections between nodes and relation types were randomized .
The number of edges in two graphs was kept the same .
We found that S-BART with our discourse graphs outperformed 1387 6 .
Here , parallel strategy performed cross attentions on different graphs separately and then combined the attended results with feed -forward networks as discussed in Section 3.3 ; sequential strategy performed cross attentions on two graphs in a specific order ( from discourse relation graphs to actions graphs , or vice versa ) .
We found that the parallel strategy showed better performances and the sequential ones did not introduce gains compared to S-BART with single graphs .
This demonstrates that discourse relation graphs and action graphs were both important and provided different signals for abstractive conversation summarization .
Visualizing ReZero Weights
We further tested our structure - aware BART with two ReZero settings : ( i ) initializing ? from 0 , ( ii ) initializing ? from 1 , and found initializing ? from 1 would bring in more performance gains ( see Appendix ) .
We then visualized the average ?
over different decoder layers after training in Figure 3 , and observed that ( i ) when ? was initialized with 1 , the final ? was much larger than the setting where ? was initialized with 0 , which might because randomly initialized modules barely received supervisions at early stages and therefore contributes less to BART .
( ii ) Compared to discourse graphs , action graphs received higher ? weights after training in both initializing settings , suggesting that the information from structured action graphs might be harder for the end-to - end BART models to capture .
( iii ) Utilizing both graphs spontaneously led to higher ReZero weights , further validating the effectiveness of combining discourse relation graphs and action graphs and their complementary properties .
Error Analyses
To inspect when our summarization models could help the conversations summarization , we visualized the average number of discourse edges and the average number of action triples in three sets of conversations in Table 7 : When the structures in conversations were simpler ( fewer discourse edges and fewer action triples than the average ) , BART showed similar performance as S-BART .
As the structures of conversations become more complex with more discourse relations and more action mentions , S- BART outperformed BART as it explicitly incorporated these structured graphs .
However , both BART and S- BART struggled when there were much more interactions beyond certain thresholds , calling for better mechanisms to model structures in conversations for generating better summaries .
Conclusion
In this work , we introduced a structure - aware sequence - to-sequence model for abstractive conversation summarization by incorporating discourse relations between utterances , and the connections between speakers and actions within utterances .
Experiments and ablation studies on SAMSum corpus showed the effectiveness of these structured graphs in aiding the task of conversation summarization via both quantitative and qualitative eval-uation metrics .
Results in zero-shot settings on ADCS Corpus further demonstrated the generalizability of our structure - aware models .
In the future , we plan to extend our current conversation summarization models for various application domains such as emails , debates , and podcasts , and in conversations that might involve longer utterances and more participants in an unsynchronized way .
