title
CSDS : A Fine - Grained Chinese Dataset for Customer Service Dialogue Summarization
abstract
Dialogue summarization has drawn much attention recently .
Especially in the customer service domain , agents could use dialogue summaries to help boost their works by quickly knowing customer 's issues and service progress .
These applications require summaries to contain the perspective of a single speaker and have a clear topic flow structure , while neither are available in existing datasets .
Therefore , in this paper , we introduce a novel Chinese dataset for Customer Service Dialogue Summarization ( CSDS ) .
CSDS improves the abstractive summaries in two aspects : ( 1 ) In addition to the overall summary for the whole dialogue , role-oriented summaries are also provided to acquire different speakers ' viewpoints .
( 2 ) All the summaries sum up each topic separately , thus containing the topic-level structure of the dialogue .
We define tasks in CSDS as generating the overall summary and different role-oriented summaries for a given dialogue .
Next , we compare various summarization methods on CSDS , and experiment results show that existing methods are prone to generate redundant and incoherent summaries .
Besides , the performance becomes much worse when analyzing the performance on role-oriented summaries and topic structures .
We hope that this study could benchmark Chinese dialogue summarization and benefit further studies .
Introduction
Text summarization aims to compress a long input text and generate a condensed summary ( Zong et al. , 2021 ) .
It can help people capture the gist of a long document quickly .
Traditional summarization tasks mainly focus on news reports ( Nallapati et al. , 2016 ; Narayan et al. , 2018 ; Zhu et al. , 2018 ) .
However , as the communication tools become convenient , enormous information is presented in a conversational format , such as meeting records , * Corresponding author .
daily chatting , and customer service logs .
These dialogues usually cost more time to read since they are longer and have more complicated structures .
Thus , summarizing information from dialogue becomes essential in practical use .
Compared with news and documents , dialogues have two main unique features .
First , dialogues have multiple speakers , and each of them has different viewpoints .
In some cases , we only focus on the main viewpoint of one participant .
A roleoriented summary will help achieve this goal .
Second , a dialogue often has multiple topics , and each topic concerns a different issue .
Since the summary expresses the primary information of the dialogue briefly and clearly , it should contain the topic flow of the dialogue by summing up each topic separately and be organized in a more structural format ( Zou et al. , 2021 b ) .
Specifically , both features are rather crucial for practical applications in the customer service domain : ( 1 ) The user-oriented summary could reflect the frequency of users ' issues , and the agent-oriented summary could help check the quality of agents ' services .
( 2 ) Topic- based structural summary could help an agent clearly acquire the user 's problems and previous service progress , figuring out the solved and unsolved problems .
Besides , role-oriented and structural summaries are also valuable for other dialogue domains such as debating and court trials .
Although several dialogue summarization datasets have been proposed recently ( McCowan et al. , 2005 ; Gliwa et al. , 2019 ; Zou et al. , 2021 a , b ) , none of them adds dialogue features ( i.e. , different speakers ' roles or topic structure ) in summaries , limiting the application of these datasets .
Therefore , we aim to construct a fine-grained Chinese dataset for Customer Service domain Dialogue Summarization ( CSDS ) .
To achieve this goal , we employ Question - Answer ( QA ) pairs as the annotation format since it is the basic granularity in a customer service di - 0 Q : ( Why is my shipping information not updating ? )
1 A : ( I 'll check it for you . )
2 Q : ( Why has n't the purchased umbrella been updated with the shipping information ? )
3 A : ( It is being transported to Shanghai Songjiang Distribution Center . )
4 A : ( The shipping information is not shown in transit . )
5 A : ( New information will be updated when the goods arrive in Shanghai [ address ] in the afternoon . )
6 Q : ( You promised to arrive today .
Can you make it ?
I 'm on a business trip tomorrow morning . )
7 A : ( It will arrive today . ) 8 Q : ( Thanks . )
9 A : ( Do you have any other questions to inquire ? )
10 A : ( Okay , you 're welcome . ) 11 Q : ( There are no questions . )
Fine-grained Annotation Overall summary : ( The customer asks why shipping information is not updating .
The agent replies because the goods are in transit , the shipping information is not shown . )
( The customer asks if the goods will arrive today .
The agent says it will . )
User summary : ( The customer asks why shipping information is not updating . )
( The customer asks if the goods will arrive today . )
Agent summary : ( The agent replies because the goods are in transit , the shipping information is not shown . )
( The agent says the goods will be delivered today . ) ( b ) ( c ) ( a )
Dialogue ( 6 ) ( The customer asks if the goods will arrive today . ) ( 7 ) ( The agent says it will . ) ( 6 , 7 ) ( The agent says the goods will be delivered today . ) ( delivery tracking ) ( 0 , 2 ) ( The customer asks why shipping information is not updating . ) ( 3 , 4 ) ( The agent replies because the goods are in transit , the shipping information is not shown . )
( Same as the answer )
Answers Well-formed answers Questions Topics
User identity : / Customer ( delivery time )
Figure 1 : An annotation example for CSDS dataset .
The annotation contents in black and blue represent summaries of different topics .
We translate all Chinese texts into English for illustration .
Red numbers are key utterance indexes , and bold texts represent key information .
alogue .
We ask annotators to divide the dialogue into segments based on the topic and summarize each segment into a QA pair .
Each pair consists of a user 's question summary and an agent 's answer summary .
Next , we modify these QA pairs and recombine them into three types of summaries , i.e. , the overall summary for the whole dialogue , the user summary for user 's viewpoints , and the agent summary for agent 's viewpoints .
Besides , we also annotate key utterances in the dialogue that provide critical information for summaries .
These utterances could be considered as extractive summaries .
An annotation example is shown in In all , we obtain more than 10,000 finegrained dialogue annotations and more than 30,000 dialogue -summary pairs in three types .
Next , we provide benchmark methods , including both extractive and abstractive methods , for CSDS .
Comparing the automatic and human evaluation results , we find that existing methods are prone to make mistakes , including : ( 1 )
The questions and answers are often mismatched in the overall summary .
( 2 ) Generated summaries usually contain unnecessary and repeated texts .
Meanwhile , there are some unique challenges in CSDS : ( 1 ) Some essential information in the agent summary is usually missing when it needs to integrate messages from users ' utterances .
( 2 ) Existing methods could not summarize separate topics correctly , especially when the number of topics increases in the dialogue .
We also provide a specific evaluation metric based on QA pair matching for comparison and analysis .
Additionally , we observe that most abstractive methods can boost their performance by using our annotated key utterance indexes , which can guide the further study of dialogue summarization methods .
The contributions of this paper are two -fold : ( 1 ) To the best of our knowledge , we are the first to construct a dialogue summarization dataset focusing on dialogue features .
Each dialogue has summaries for different roles , and each summary sums up different topics separately 1 . ( 2 ) We elaborately compare and analyze the results of different summarization methods on our tasks .
We conclude critical difficulties of tasks in CSDS and helpful information for boosting the performance of existing methods .
We hope that our work could benchmark Chinese dialogue summarization and promote the development of this area .
Related Work Most of the widely - used summarization datasets belong to document summarization .
Early datasets are provided by some evaluation tasks , such as DUC ( Dang , 2005 ) and TAC ( Dang and Owczarzak , 2008 ) .
Recently , there exist various types of document summarization datasets such as news reports ( Nallapati et al. , 2016 ; Narayan et al. , 2018 ) , wiki passages ( Liu et al. , 2018 ) , and scientific papers ( Kang et al. , 2018 ) .
Different from document summarization , dialogue summarization aims to summarize a conversation into a narrative text .
McCowan et al. ( 2005 ) ; Janin et al. ( 2003 ) provide two datasets for dialogue summarization at the earliest , and the task of their data is to summarize a meeting transcript into a few short sentences .
Zhong et al. ( 2021 ) incorporate them and propose a query - based summarization task .
Gliwa et al. ( 2019 ) propose an English daily conversation summarization dataset on fictitious dialogues , providing a new daily chatting scenario .
Other datasets provided by Rameshkumar and Bailey ( 2020 ) , Duan et al. ( 2019 ) and Zhu et al . ( 2021 ) also show the potential of dialogue summarization in other scenarios .
As for Chinese dialogue summarization datasets , Song et al . ( 2020 ) construct a medical dialogue summarization dataset , where most of the summaries are extractive and relatively easy to generate .
Almost all the above datasets only provide an overall summary for each dialogue without further annotations .
In the customer service domain , Zou et al . ( 2021 b ) provide a related dialogue summarization dataset , which is the most similar to our work .
However , their dataset only contains an overall summary from the agent 's perspective for each dialogue .
Besides , their publicly available data are difficult to analyze since all the sentences are given by word indexes .
On the contrary , our dataset is readable and has more fine- grained annotations such as role-oriented summaries and topic-based structural summaries , both valuable and convenient for further research in this area .
Dataset Construction
Data Collection
We built our dataset based on JDDC ( Chen et al. , 2020 ) . JDDC is a large-scale multi-turn Chinese dialogue dataset containing conversations about pre-sales and after-sales topics between users and agents in a real-world e-commerce scenario .
First , we selected some dialogues in JDDC which satisfy the following requirements .
( 1 ) We tend to select dialogues with long turns to ensure sufficient information and difficulty for summarization .
( 2 ) Topics are various and evenly distributed .
This requirement is achieved by controlling the distribution of query intents among the selected dialogues .
( 3 ) All dialogues should be semantically complete ( not truncated from a long conversation ) .
More details are given in Appendix A. Next , we annotated our CSDS data based on these dialogues .
Note that all private information in the CSDS has been anonymized , consistent with JDDC .
More details are given in the Ethical Considerations Section .
Fine-grained Annotation Format
For each dialogue , our annotation contains three components , i.e. , user identity , question - answer ( QA ) pairs , and key utterance indexes .
User identity
As shown in Figure 1 ( a ) , speakers in each dialogue are represented as Q and A .
A stands for the customer service agent , while Q has three different identities ( customer , seller , and deliveryman ) .
Besides , the user identity is unique for every single dialogue .
Thus , we annotated the identity based on the dialogue and replace Q with it in the dialogue .
This process keeps the expression consistent in the dialogue and the summary .
QA pairs First , we would like to find out a universal format for the customer service dialogue summary .
Thus we took a pilot experiment by letting three well - educated annotators summarize the same 50 dialogues .
We limited the summary to be less than 100 words and counted the formats of their summaries .
We give the result in appendix B .
The statistics reveal that most annotated summaries consist of several segments .
Each segment focuses on a single topic in a QA pair format ( The user raises a problem , and the agent gives a solution ) .
Based on the result of the pilot experiment , we believe that the QA pair is an appropriate format for dialogue summarization .
To obtain a dialogue summary , we divided each dialogue into several segments according to different discussion topics and summarized the content of each topic independently into a QA pair .
We present an example in Figure 1 ( b ) .
Note that the " question " and " answer " are not the same as defined for dialogue acts ( Bunt et al. , 2012 ) , but at a more abstractive level .
The " question " summarizes the problem or question raised by the user , while the " answer " summarizes the problem - solving process provided by the agent , thus also including questions raised by agents .
Besides , each QA pair was annotated with a topic label according to the intent classes of dialogue utterances provided in JDDC dataset .
We describe more details in appendix C .
In addition to summaries , this form of annotations can be extended to construct pseudo - QA pairs from dialogue for training models of downstream tasks , such as QA systems .
Key utterance indexes Key utterances are dialogue utterances that provide critical information for summaries .
We asked the annotators to annotate the indexes of key utterances that reflect the important information in the dialogue .
These annotations could be regarded as extractive summaries labels .
An example is shown in Figure 1 ( b ) with red font .
Summary Format Based on the annotations above , we could obtain three different summaries for each dialogue , including an overall summary and two role-oriented summaries ( user summary and agent summary ) .
We give an example in Figure 1 ( c ) .
Overall summary
The overall summary condenses the main information of the whole dialogue .
We concatenated annotated QA pairs in sequence to obtain the overall summary .
Each QA pair represents the summary for a single topic in the dialogue , and the order reflects the topic flow .
User summary
The user summary only focuses on the user 's main viewpoints and often includes the user 's problems , questions , and explanations .
Benefiting from the QA pair annotation , we only need to concatenate all the question parts in QA pairs and considered it as the user summary .
Agent summary
The agent summary only focuses on the agent 's responses , consisting of solutions to problems , answers to questions , and inquiries from the agent .
However , different from questions , the agent 's answers in the QA pair might have ellipsis , e.g. , " Yes " or " I will " .
These answers are only meaningful and readable with their related questions .
An example is given in Figure 1 ( b ) .
The answer " The agent says it will " is incomplete without the corresponding question .
Thus we elaborately completed these answers by adding necessary contexts to ensure that they can be well understood alone .
Finally , we concatenated these well - formed answers to obtain the agent summary .
Human Annotation Process
We hired 44 undergraduate students to annotate the dialogues mentioned above .
Each annotator first labeled the user identity in the dialogue .
Next , the annotator summarized QA pairs and annotated key utterance indexes .
We demanded that questions in QA pairs be refined from users ' core questions in an objective form , and answers contain the process of solving related questions and the final results .
Any trivial information , like greeting or appreciation , should be omitted in QA pairs .
Lastly , we followed the process in Section 3.3 to obtain three types of summaries from the annotated data .
For agent summaries , we filtered out answers difficult to be understood without their related questions .
As explained in 3.3 , we asked four annotators to complete these answers into well - formed ones and obtained agent summaries by concatenating them .
More details are in Appendix D .
We present an example of the whole annotation process and the acquired summaries in Figure 1 .
Quality Control
To ensure that each annotator can finish the task with high quality , we set up a pre-annotation test .
We first let the annotators read our instructions thoroughly and asked them to annotate five test samples .
Two expert examiners on this task checked whether the annotation satisfied the following four criteria : ( 1 ) The extracted QA pairs contain all core information in the dialogue .
( 2 ) There is no redundant information appearing in QA pairs .
( 3 ) All the QA pairs are fluent and easy to understand .
( 4 ) The key utterance indexes and user identity are labeled correctly .
The annotators that met all the criteria could continue to label the formal data .
After labeling the formal data , two examiners sampled 10 % of the annotators ' data and checked them carefully .
If the acceptability ratio was lower than 90 % , the corresponding annotators were asked to revise their annotation .
The loop ended until the acceptability ratio reached 90 % .
Since summarization is a relatively subjective task , it is impossible to control different annotators generating the same summaries .
We control the consistency of annotated summaries by employing a more objective examination process as men- tioned above .
To ensure the reliability of the above four criteria , we did the inter-annotator agreement study between examiners .
Two examiners evaluated the quality of the same 100 samples by judging whether each annotation meets the four criteria .
The kappa scores on the four rules were 0.51 , 0.61 , 0.55 , 0.65 .
Since the evaluation of NLG tasks is a more challenging task and the inter-rater agreement cannot be very high ( Amidei et al. , 2018 ) .
These reasonable inter-annotator agreements show the reasonability of our quality control criteria and the credibility of the annotated summaries for further research .
Dataset Statistics and Comparison
We compare our dataset with other dialogue summarization datasets in Table 1 and some statistics of CSDS is shown in Table 2 .
We summarize the advantages of CSDS in the following three aspects : Multiple Roles ' Perspectives Since CSDS have summaries for different roles , they can reflect the main viewpoints of the dialogue through different perspectives .
It also raises a question on how to express the main point of one speaker while maintaining complete semantic information .
Topic Structure
Our summaries are split by different topics , thus maintaining the topic flow in the dialogue .
This kind of format could reflect the dialogue content more clearly and straightforwardly .
Meanwhile , we could also evaluate the summary quality in a topic-level granularity .
Key Utterance Annotation CSDS annotates the key utterance indexes in each dialogue and maps them with the related summaries .
They could be used as extractive summary references and additional training signals to help boost summarization performance .
4 Task and Experiment Setup
Task Definition
The input of the task is a dialogue with multiple turns .
Each utterance is labeled with its speaker role ( e.g. , user or agent ) and the specific user identity ( e.g. , customer or seller ) .
The task is to generate three different kinds of summaries as explained in Section 3.3 , including the overall summary , user summary , and agent summary .
Each summary should consist of several segments , and each segment represents the summary for a topic in the dialogue .
Besides , models could use the annotated key utterance indexes as additional supervised signals during the training process .
However , existing methods for dialogue summarization are not specified for role-oriented summaries or guaranteed to generate a topic-based structural summary , which are the specific features in CSDS .
Thus , we want to figure out what performance existing methods could reach by training to generate different kinds of summaries separately and relax the structural requirements 2 .
Summarization Models
In this section , we will introduce some widely - used extractive and abstractive summarization models on dialogue summarization .
We also enhance some of the models using our special annotations .
The extractive methods include : LONGEST :
As the longer utterances in the dialogue may contain more useful information , we sort the utterances by their lengths and extract the top k longest utterances as the summary .
Number k is decided by the maximum summary length limit .
LexPageRank ( Erkan and Radev , 2004 ) :
This method ranks dialogue utterances by PageRank algorithm and extracts utterances in order until the length of the summary reaches the limit .
SummaRuNNer ( Nallapati et al. , 2017 ) : A supervised extractive summarization method by scoring each utterance using RNN .
Here , we use the key utterance indexes as extractive labels .
BERTExt ( Liu and Lapata , 2019 ) :
This method scores each utterance in dialogue by finetuning on the pretrained BERT ( Devlin et al. , 2019 ) model .
Extractive labels are the same as SummaRuNNer .
We also implement some abstractive methods : PGN ( See et al. , 2017 ) :
An RNN - based seq2seq model using source word copy mechanism and attention coverage mechanism .
Fast - RL ( Chen and Bansal , 2018 ) :
This method first extracts important sentences and then compresses them into summaries .
The whole model is at last jointly trained by reinforcement learning .
BERTAbs ( Liu and Lapata , 2019 ) :
It uses pretrained BERT as the encoder and a transformerbased network as the decoder to summarize .
TDS +SATM ( Zou et al. , 2021 b ) :
It is similar to Fast - RL but uses BERT and transformer structure as the extractive model and abstractive model .
Besides , it also introduces a topic model to enhance summary generation .
For all abstractive methods containing the extractive process , such as Fast - RL and TDS + SATM , we also use the annotated key utterance indexes as supervised signals only in the training process .
We name them as Fast - RL * and TDS + SATM * .
Besides , all extractive methods are restricted to generate summaries less than a limited length , which is 84 for the overall summary , 38 for the user summary , and 49 for the agent summary .
They are set according to the average length of reference summaries .
More experimental settings are given in Appendix E.
Evaluation Metrics
We employ five widely used automatic metrics to evaluate the above methods .
The automatic metrics 3 include : ROUGE - based methods ( Lin and Hovy , 2002 ) :
Widely used metrics by measuring the overlap of n-grams between two texts .
Here we choose ROUGE - 2 and ROUGE -L for comparison .
BLEU ( Papineni et al. , 2002 ) : Another n-gram overlap metric by considering up to 4 - grams .
BERTScore ( Zhang et al. , 2020 ) :
It measures the word overlap between two texts according to contextual BERT embeddings .
MoverScore ( Zhao et al. , 2019 ) :
It measures the semantic distance between two texts according to pretrained embeddings .
Here we use BERT embedding as well .
As for human evaluation metrics , we try to evaluate the quality of summaries at a fine- grained topic level .
First , we split the ground truth summaries and the summaries generated by models into different topic segments 4 .
Then we evaluate the summary quality for each segment in the following three aspects : informativeness , non-redundancy , fluency 5 .
These three aspects are frequently used in the summarization community ( Zhu et al. , 2019 ; Fabbri et al. , 2021 ) , and we also refer to some researches on NLG evaluation .
Each aspect is scored on a threepoint scale , 0 for the worst , 1 for the medium , and 2 for the best .
Three aspects are defined as : Informativeness :
How much key information of the ground truth summary does the generated summary correctly cover ?
Non-redundancy :
Does the generated summary contain repeated , meaningless or unnecessary information ?
Fluency :
Is the generated summary formal , wellformed , grammatically correct ?
In addition to the above three aspects , we propose a new metric named Matching Rate .
It represents the matching rate of questions and answers in the overall summaries .
Moreover , it can reflect the semantic coherency of summaries since unmatched QA pairs can lead to huge incoherence between sentences .
Experimental Results
Automatic Evaluation Results
First , we present automatic evaluation metric results of different models in Table 3 .
In general , we observe that abstractive methods perform better than extractive methods with a large margin .
Among extractive methods , SummaRunner achieves the best results , indicating the effectiveness of supervised utterance index labels .
As for abstractive methods , Fast-RL and Fast - RL * perform best on almost all metrics except for ROUGE -L of the overall summary , where the PGN method obtains a better result .
Transformer - based methods perform worse mainly because of relatively small data size ( Joshi et al. , 2020 ) .
It is worth noticing that enhanced methods ( Fast - RL * , TDS + SATM * ) are usually better than their original version on the overall summary and the user summary .
This highlights the effect of the key utterance indexes even just used as supervised signals , as it can reflect which utterance is more critical for summarization .
By comparing with the same model in different tasks , we find that the agent summary scores are much lower than the overall summary and user summary in most metrics .
It demonstrates that generating agent summaries is more difficult than the other two types of summaries since it needs to focus on what the agent says and incorporate some necessary information from the user .
Human Evaluation Results
Next , we choose the outputs of some summarization methods and let humans evaluate them in the metrics we defined in Section 4.3 .
We choose four relatively well - performed methods and randomly sample 50 dialogues from the test set .
We recruit three well -educated volunteers to evaluate the three different types of summaries generated from four methods .
We also run the inter-annotator agreement study on three volunteers ' scores , and the kappa score is 0.52 on average .
The result is shown in Table 4 .
Obviously , all methods perform poorly on nonredundancy , where most of the scores are lower than one .
Besides , they also achieve low informativeness scores .
These results prove that although some methods can reach high automatic metric scores , the generated summaries still contain much useless information and miss some essential content .
Moreover , we find that nearly 30 percent of overall summaries have unmatched questions and answers through the matching rate .
It demonstrates that these methods could not guarantee to generate a semantically coherent summary .
Dataset Difficulties
In this section , we want to analyze the difficulties of CSDS further .
According to the fine-grained features in CSDS and the challenges mentioned in Section 3.6 , we raise the following two questions .
( 1 ) Compared with the overall summary , what are the difficulties for the role-oriented summary ?
( 2 ) Could existing methods generate summaries with the correct topic structure ?
Table 5 : The performance of some methods on different types of samples .
Type A stands for agent summaries that need to be integrated , and Type B stands for those that do not .
Note that all the metrics here are recall scores .
Integrating messages from other roles for the role-oriented summary is difficult .
Compared with the overall summary , the role-oriented summary focuses on a single role 's utterances .
It needs to integrate messages from other roles to make the summary understandable , especially for agent summary .
To analyze whether existing methods could learn to integrate different roles ' information for agent summary , we compare the summary quality of samples which need to be integrated and those that do not need separately .
Note that in Section 3.3 , we complete some agent summaries to make them well -understood without contexts .
Thus , these completed summaries are considered as requiring information integration and others as not requiring integration .
As shown in Table 5 , all three models obtain much lower ROUGE scores 6 on agent summary for samples that need to integrate than other samples , indicating the insufficient ability to provide a semantically intact agent summary .
However , the overall summary results do not show the same trend , proving that this gap is only caused by agent summaries .
More specific models , such as jointly learning to generate different types of summaries , need to be studied for this task .
Table 6 : The ratio of correctly summarized QA pair for some baseline methods .
Figure 2 : The relationship between the recall score of QA pair matching ratio and the number of QA pairs in the reference summary , which is also the topic number .
Generating summaries with the correct topic structure is difficult .
Traditional summarization models treat the dialogue as a whole and do not specifically consider the structure of generated summaries .
Thus we wonder whether these methods could generate summaries with correct topic structure as references .
We analyze the overall summary results and consider each QA pair in the summary as a whole , judging whether each QA pair is contained by the results of different models .
We provide a ROUGE - L-based greedy match algorithm to calculate the number of correct QA pairs ( More details are given in Appendix G ) .
We calculate the precision , recall , and F1 scores of correctly matched QA pair ratio and present them in Table 6 .
The result shows that the best model can only match around 20 % of QA pairs in the summary .
Besides , more than 80 % of redundant QA pairs exist in the generated summary since the best precision score is only 0.19 .
Both show the poor ability of existing methods to separate and summarize QA pairs , which is not shown by calculating the ROUGE score in general .
We also analyze how the QA pair matching ratio changes with the number of QA pairs in the reference summary and present it in Figure 2 .
The similar trends for three different methods indicate that it is harder to separate QA pairs for different topics when the number of QA pairs increases in reference summaries .
Therefore , how to summarize dialogues with the correct topic structure needs further study .
Besides , our evaluation algorithm can also be used as a standard metric to compare the performance of different methods on CSDS .
At last , we present some examples of mistakes made by existing methods on CSDS in appendix H. From these cases , we conclude that more elaborate methods are needed for dialogue summarization .
Conclusion
In this paper , we introduce a novel customer service dialogue summarization dataset named CSDS .
This dataset is fine- grained in two folds .
Summaries for different roles are provided , and summaries contain topic structure information , which could help promote research and applications in this area .
We also do elaborate experiments on CSDS and draw some instructive conclusions on method performance and dataset difficulties .
In the future , we hope that we can propose new models for CSDS to summarize different roles or summarize the content for a specific topic .
More suitable automatic evaluation metrics , especially for comparing the topic structure in the summary , are also worth studying .
