title
BASS : Boosting Abstractive Summarization with Unified Semantic Graph
abstract
Abstractive summarization for long-document or multi-document remains challenging for the Seq2Seq architecture , as Seq2Seq is not good at analyzing long-distance relations in text .
In this paper , we present BASS , a novel framework for Boosting Abstractive Summarization based on a unified Semantic graph , which aggregates co-referent phrases distributing across a long range of context and conveys rich relations between phrases .
Further , a graph- based encoder-decoder model is proposed to improve both the document representation and summary generation process by leveraging the graph structure .
Specifically , several graph augmentation methods are designed to encode both the explicit and implicit relations in the text while the graphpropagation attention mechanism is developed in the decoder to select salient content into the summary .
Empirical results show that the proposed architecture brings substantial improvements for both long-document and multidocument summarization tasks .
Introduction Nowadays , the sequence-to-sequence ( Seq2Seq ) based summarization models have gained unprecedented popularity ( Rush et al. , 2015 ; See et al. , 2017 ; Lewis et al. , 2020 ) .
However , complex summarization scenarios such as long-document or multi-document summarization ( MDS ) , still bring great challenges to Seq2Seq models ( Cohan et al. , 2018 ; .
In a long document numerous details and salient content may distribute evenly ( Sharma et al. , 2019 ) while multiple documents may contain repeated , redundant or contradictory information ( Radev , 2000 ) .
These problems make Seq2Seq models struggle with content selection and organization which mainly depend on the long source sequence ( Shao et al. , 2017 ) .
Thus , how to exploit deep semantic structure in the complex text input is a key to further promote summarization performance .
Compared with sequence , graph can aggregate relevant disjoint context by uniformly representing them as nodes and their relations as edges .
This greatly benefits global structure learning and longdistance relation modeling .
Several previous works have attempted to leverage sentence-relation graph to improve long sequence summarization , where nodes are sentences and edges are similarity or dis-course relations between sentences .
However , the sentence-relation graph is not flexible for fine- grained ( such as entities ) information aggregation and relation modeling .
Some other works also proposed to construct local knowledge graph by OpenIE to improve Seq2Seq models ( Fan et al. , 2019 ; Huang et al. , 2020 ) .
However , the OpenIE - based graph only contains sparse relations between partially extracted phrases , which cannot reflect the global structure and rich relations of the overall sequence .
For better modeling the long-distance relations and global structure of a long sequence , we propose to apply a phrase -level unified semantic graph to facilitate content selection and organization .
Based on fine- grained phrases extracted from dependency parsing , our graph is suitable for information aggregation with the help of coreference resolution that substantially compresses the input and benefits content selection .
Furthermore , relations between phrases play an important role in organizing the salient content when generating summaries .
For example , in Figure 1 the phrases " Albert Einstein " , " the great prize " and " explanation of the of the photoelectric " which distribute in different sentences are easily aggregated through their semantic relations to compose the final summary sentence .
We further propose a graph- based encoderdecoder model based on the unified semantic graph .
The graph-encoder effectively encodes long sequences by explicitly modeling the relations between phrases and capturing the global structure based on the semantic graph .
Besides , several graph augmentation methods are also applied during graph encoding to tap the potential semantic relations .
For the decoding procedure , the graph decoder incorporates the graph structure by graph propagate attention to guide the summary generation process , which can help select salient content and organize them into a coherent summary .
We conduct extensive experiments on both the long-document summarization dataset BIG - PATENT and MDS dataset WikiSUM to validate the effectiveness of our model .
Experiment results demonstrate that our graph- based model significantly improves the performance of both longdocument and multi-document summarization over several strong baselines .
Our main contributions are summarized as follows : ?
We present the unified semantic graph which aggregates co-referent phrases distributed in context for better modeling the longdistance relations and global structure in longdocument summarization and MDS .
?
We propose a graph- based encoder-decoder model to improve both the document representation and summary generation process of the Seq2Seq architecture by leveraging the graph structure .
?
Automatic and human evaluation on both long-document summarization and MDS outperform several strong baselines and validate the effectiveness of our graph - based model .
2 Related Works
Abstractive Summarization Abstractive summarization aims to generate a fluent and concise summary for the given input document ( Rush et al. , 2015 ) .
Most works apply Seq2Seq architecture to implicitly learn the summarization procedure ( See et al. , 2017 ; Gehrmann et al. , 2018 ; Paulus et al. , 2017 ; Celikyilmaz et al. , 2018 ) .
More recently , significant improvements have been achieved by applying pre-trained language models as encoder ( Liu and Lapata , 2019 b ; Rothe et al. , 2020 ) or pre-training the generation process leveraging a large-scale of unlabeled corpus ( Dong et al. , 2019 ; Lewis et al. , 2020 ; Qi et al. , 2020 ; Zhang et al. , 2020a ) .
In MDS , most of the previous models apply extractive methods ( Erkan and Radev , 2004 ; Cho et al. , 2019 ) .
Due to the lack of large-scale datasets , some attempts on abstractive methods transfer single document summarization ( SDS ) models to MDS Yang et al. , 2019 ) or unsupervised methods based on auto-encoder ( Chu and Liu , 2019 ; Bra?inskas et al. , 2020 ; Amplayo and Lapata , 2020 ) .
After the release of several large MDS datasets Fabbri et al. , 2019 ) , some supervised abstractive models for MDS appear .
Their works also emphasize the importance of modeling cross-document relations in MDS .
Structure Enhanced Summarization Explicit structures play an important role in recent deep learning - based extractive and abstractive summarization methods ( Li et al. , 2018a , b ; . Different structures benefit summarization models from different aspects .
Unified Semantic Graph
In this section , we introduce the definition and construction of the unified semantic graph .
Graph Definition
The unified semantic graph is a heterogeneous graph defined as G = ( V , E ) , where V and E are the set of nodes and edges .
Every node in V represents a concept merged from co-referent phrases .
For example , in Figure 1
Graph Construction
To construct the semantic graph , we extract phrases and their relations from sentences by first merging tokens into phrases and then merging co-referent phrases into nodes .
We employ CoreNLP ( Manning et al. , 2014 ) to obtain coreference chains of the input sequence and the dependency parsing tree of each sentence .
Based on the dependency parsing tree , we merge consecutive tokens that form a complete semantic unit into a phrase .
Afterwards , we merge the same phrases from different positions and phrases in the same coreference chain to form the nodes in the semantic graph .
The final statistics of the unified semantic graph on WikiSUM are illustrated in table 1 , which indicates that the scale of the graph expands moderately with the inputs .
This also demonstrates how the unified semantic graph compresses long-text information .
Summarization Model
In this section , we introduce our graph - based abstractive summarization model , which mainly consists of a graph encoder and a graph decoder , as shown in Figure 2 .
In the encoding stage , our In the decoding stage , the graph decoder leverages the graph structure to guide the summary generation process by a novel graph - propagate attention , which facilitates salient content selection and organization for generating more informative and coherent summaries .
Text Encoder
To better represent local features in sequence , we apply the pre-trained language model RoBERTa as our text encoder .
As the maximum positional embedding length of RoBERTa is 512 , we extend the positional embedding length and randomly initialize the extended part .
To be specific , in every layer , the representation of every node is only updated by it 's neighbors by self attention .
Graph Encoder
After we obtain token representations by the text encoder , we further model the graph structure to obtain node representations .
We initialize node representations in the graph based on token representations and the token - to - node alignment information from graph construction .
After initialization , we apply graph encoding layers to model the explicit semantic relations features and additionally apply several graph augmentation methods to learn the implicit structure conveyed by the graph .
Node Initialization Similar to graph construction in section 3.2 , we initialize graph representations following the two -level merging , token merging and phrase merging .
The token merging compresses and abstracts local token features into higher - level phrase representations .
The phrase merging aggregates co-referent phrases in a wide context , which captures long-distance and crossdocument relations .
To be simple , these two merging steps are implemented by average pooling .
Graph Encoding Layer Following previous works in graph-to-sequence learning ( Koncel - Kedziorski et al. , 2019 ; , we apply Transformer layers for graph modeling by applying the graph adjacent matrix as self-attention mask .
Graph Augmentation Following previous works ( Bastings et al. , 2017 ; Koncel- Kedziorski et al. , 2019 ) , we add reverse edges and self-loop edges in graph as the original directed edges are not enough for learning backward information .
For better utilizing the properties of the united semantic graph , we further propose two novel graph augmentation methods .
Supernode
As the graph becomes larger , noises introduced by imperfect graph construction also increase , which may cause disconnected sub-graphs .
To strengthen the robustness of graph modeling and learn better global representations , we add a special supernode connected with every other node in the graph to increase the connectivity .
Shortcut Edges
Indicated by previous works , graph neural networks are weak at modeling multihop relations ( Abu -El - Haija et al. , 2019 ) .
However , as mentioned in section 3.1 , the meta-paths of length two represent rich semantic structures that require further modeling the two -hop relations between nodes .
As illustrated in Figure 2 ) , but we find shortcut edges are more efficient and effective .
The effectiveness of these graph augmentation methods has also been validated in section 6.2 .
Graph Decoding Layer Token and node representations benefit summary generation in different aspects .
Token representations are better at capturing local features while graph representations provide global and abstract features .
For leveraging both representations , we apply a stack of Transformer - based graph decoding layers as the decoder which attends to both representations and fuse them for generating summaries .
Let y l?1 t denotes the representation of t-th summary token output by ( l ? 1 ) - th graph decoding layer .
For the graph attention , we apply multi-head attention using y l?1 t as query and node representations V = {v j } as keys and values : ? t , j = ( y l?1 t W Q ) ( v j W K ) T ? d head ( 1 ) where W Q , W K ?
R d?d are parameter weights , ? t , j denote the salient score for node j to y l?1 t .
We then calculate the global graph vector g t as weighted sum over values of nodes : g t = j Sof tmax ( ?
t , j ) ( v j W V ) where W V ? R d?d is a learnable parameter .
We also obtain contextualized text vector c t similar to the procedure above by calculating multi-head attention between y l?1 t and token representations .
Afterwards , we use a graph fusion layer which is a feed-forward neural network to fuse the concatenation of the two features : d l t = W T d ( [ g t , c t ] ) , where W d ?
R 2d?d is the linear transformation parameter and d l t is the hybrid representation of tokens and graph .
After layer- norm and feed -forward layer , the l-th graph decoding layer output y l t is used as the input of the next layer and also used for generating the t th token in the final layer .
Graph -propagate Attention
When applying multi-head attention to graph , it only attends to node representations linearly , neglecting the graph structure .
Inspired by Klicpera et al. ( 2019 ) , we propose the graph - propagate attention to leverage the graph structure to guide the summary generation process .
By further utilizing semantic structure , the decoder is more efficient in selecting and organizing salient content .
Without extra parameters , the graph-propagation attention can be conveniently applied to the conventional multi-head attention for structure - aware learning .
Graph - propagate attention consists of two steps : salient score prediction and score propagation .
In the first step , we predict the salient score for every node linearly .
We apply the output of multi-head attention ? t ? R |v|?C in Equation 1 as salient scores , where | v| is the number of nodes in the graph and C is the number of attention heads .
C is regarded as C digits or channels of the salient score for every node .
We then make the salient score structureaware through score propagation .
Though PageRank can propagate salient scores over the entire graph , it leads to over-smoothed scores , as in every summary decoding step only parts of the content are salient .
Therefore , for each node we only propagate its salient score p times in the graph , aggregating at most p-hop relations .
Let ?
0 t = ? t denotes the initial salient score predicted in previous step , the salient score after p-th propagation is : ? p t = ? ? p?1 t + ( 1 ? ? ) ?
0 t ( 2 ) where ? = AD ?1 is a degree-normalized adjacent matrix of the graph 1 , and ? ? ( 0 , 1 ] is the teleport 1 Adjacent matrix A contains self-loop and reverse edges .
probability which defines the salient score has the probability ? to propagate towards the neighbor nodes and 1 ? ? to restart from initial .
The graphpropagation procedure can also be formulated as : ? p t = ( ? p ?p + ( 1 ? ? ) ( p?1 i=0 ? i ?i ) ) ?
t ( 3 ) After p steps of salient score propagation , the graph vector is then calculated by weighted sum of node values : g t = j Sof tmax (?
p t , j ) ( v j W V ) ( 4 ) where for the convenience of expression , the concatenation of multi-head is omitted .
The output of fusing g t and c t is then applied to generate the t th summary token as mentioned before .
Experiment Setup
In this section , we describe the datasets of our experiments and various implementation details .
Summarization Datasets
We evaluate our model on a SDS dataset and an MDS dataset , namely BIGPATENT ( Sharma et al. , 2019 ) and WikiSUM . BIGPATENT is a large-scale patent document summarization dataset with an average input of 3572.8 words and a reference with average length of 116.5 words .
BIGPATENT is a highly abstractive summarization dataset with salient content evenly distributed in the input .
We follow the standard splits of Sharma et al . ( 2019 ) for training , validation , and testing ( 1,207,222/67,068/67,072 ) .
WikiSUM is a large-scale MDS dataset .
Following Liu and Lapata ( 2019a ) , we treat the generation of lead Wikipedia sections as an MDS task .
To be specific , we directly utilize the preprocessed results from , which split source documents into multiple paragraphs and rank the paragraphs based on their titles to select top - 40 paragraphs as source input .
The average length of each paragraph and the target summary are 70.1 tokens and 139.4 tokens , respectively .
We concatenate all the paragraphs as the input sequence .
We use the standard splits of Rouge -1 , Rouge -2 , Rouge -L and BERTScore are abbreviated as R -1 , R - 2 , R-L and BS , respectively .
Implementation Details
We train all the abstractive models by max likelihood estimation with label smoothing ( label smoothing factor 0.1 ) .
As we fine- tune the pretrained language model RoBERTa as text encoder , we apply two different Adam optimizers ( Kingma and Ba , 2015 ) with ?
1 = 0.9 and ?
2 = 0.998 to train the pre-trained part and other parts of the model ( Liu and Lapata , 2019 b ) .
The learning rate and warmup steps are 2e - 3 and 20,000 for the pretrained part and 0.1 and 10,000 for other parts .
As noticed from experiments , when the learning rate is high , graph - based models suffer from unstable training caused by the gradient explosion in the text encoder .
Gradient clipping with a very small maximum gradient norm ( 0.2 in our work ) solves this problem .
All the models are trained for 300,000 steps on BIGPATENT and WikiSUM with 8 GPUs ( NVIDIA Tesla V100 ) .
We apply dropout ( with the probability of 0.1 ) before all linear layers .
In our model , the number of graph- encoder layers and graph- decoder layers are set as 2 and 6 , respectively .
The hidden size of both graph encoding and graph decoding layers is 768 in alignment with RoBERTa , and the feed -forward size is 2048 for parameter efficiency .
For graph - propagation attention , the parameter ? is 0.9 , and the propagation steps p is 2 .
During decoding , we apply beam search with beam size 5 and length penalty with factor 0.9 .
Trigram blocking is used to reduce repetitions .
Results
Automatic Evaluation
We evaluate the quality of generated summaries using ROUGE F 1 ( Lin , 2004 )
We also report BERTScore 2 F 1 , a better metric at evaluating semantic similarity between system summaries and reference summaries .
4 , after removing explicit relations between phrases by fully connecting all the nodes , the R - 1 metric drops obviously which indicates the relations between phrases improve the informativeness of generated summaries .
Results on MDS
After further removing phrase merging , we observe a performance decrease in all the metrics , which indicates the long-distance relations benefit both the informativeness and fluency of summary .
Ablation Study
The experimental results of removing supernode and shortcut edges from the unified semantic graph prove the effectiveness of graph augmentation methods in the graph encoder .
Experimental results without the gaph-propagation attention confirms that the structure of the unified semantic graph is also beneficial for decoding .
Overall , the performance of the model drops the most when removing shortcut edges which indicates the rich potential information is beneficial for summarization .
Finally , after removing all the graph-relevant components , performance dramatically drops on all the metrics .
Length Comparison
According to , input length affects the summarization performance seriously for Seq2Seq models as most of them are not efficient at handling longer sequences .
The basic TransS2S achieves its best performance at the input length of 800 , while longer input hurts performance .
Several previous models achieve bet- ter performance when utilizing longer sequences .
As illustrated in Figure 3 , the performance of HT remains stable when the input length is longer than 800 .
Leveraging the power of sentence - level graph , GraphSum achieves the best performance at 2,400 but its performance begins to decrease when the input length reaches 3000 .
Unlike previous methods , ROUGE - 1 of BASS significantly increased in 3000 indicates that the unified semantic graph benefits salient information selection even though the input length is extreme .
Abastractiveness Analysis
We also study the abstractiveness of BASS and other summarization systems on WikiSUM .
We calculate the average novel n-grams to the source input , which reflects the abstractiveness of a summarization system ( See et al. , 2017 ) .
Illustrated in Figure 4 , BASS generates more abstract summaries comparing to recent models , GraphSum , HT , and weaker than RoBER - TaS2S .
Summarized from observation , we draw to a conclusion that RoBERTaS2S usually generates context irrelevant contents due to the strong pretrained RoBERTa encoder but a randomly initialized decoder that relays on the long - text input poorly .
Graph - based decoders of BASS and Graph - Sum alleviate this phenomenon .
Human Evaluation
In addition to the above automatic evaluations , we also conduct human evaluations to assess the performance of systems .
Because the patent dataset BIGPATENT contains lots of terminologies and requires professional background knowledge for annotators , we select WikiSUM as the dataset for evaluations .
As Wikipedia entries can be summarized in many different aspects , annotators will naturally favor systems with longer outputs .
Thus we first filter instances that the summaries of different systems are significantly different in lengths and then randomly select 100 instances .
We invite 2 annotators to assess the summaries of different models independently .
Annotators evaluate the overall quality of summaries by ranking them taking into account the following criterias : ( 1 ) Informativeness : whether the summary conveys important and faithful facts of the input ?
( 2 ) Fluency : whether the summary is fluent , grammatical , and coherent ?
( 3 ) Succinctness : whether the summary is concise and dose not describe too many details ?
Summaries with the same quality get the same order .
All systems get score 2,1 , - 1,2 for ranking 1,2,3,4 respectively .
The rating of each system is averaged by the scores of all test instances .
The results of our system and the other three strong baselines are shown in Table 6 .
The percentage of rankings and the overall scores are both reported .
Summarized from the results , our model BASS is able to generate higher quality summaries .
Some examples are also shown in the appendix .
Specifically , BASS generates fluent and concise summaries containing more salient content compared with other systems .
The human evaluation results further validate the effectiveness of our semantic graph - based model .
Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper , we propose to leverage the unified semantic graph to improve the performance of neural abstractive models for long-document summarization and MDS .
We further present a graph- based encoder-decoder model to improve both the document representation and summary generation process by leveraging the graph structure .
Experiments
