title
Noisy Self-Knowledge Distillation for Text Summarization
abstract
In this paper we apply self-knowledge distillation to text summarization which we argue can alleviate problems with maximumlikelihood training on single reference and noisy datasets .
Instead of relying on one-hot annotation labels , our student summarization model is trained with guidance from a teacher which generates smoothed labels to help regularize training .
Furthermore , to better model uncertainty during training , we introduce multiple noise signals for both teacher and student models .
We demonstrate experimentally on three benchmarks that our framework boosts the performance of both pretrained and nonpretrained summarizers achieving state - of- theart results .
1
Introduction Automatic summarization has enjoyed renewed interest in recent years , thanks to the popularity of neural network models and their ability to learn continuous representations without recourse to preprocessing tools or linguistic annotations .
The availability of large-scale datasets ( Sandhaus , 2008 ; Hermann et al. , 2015 ; Grusky et al. , 2018 ; Narayan et al. , 2018 ) containing hundreds of thousands of document-summary pairs has driven the development of neural architectures for summarization .
Several approaches have been proposed , in the vast majority sequence - to-sequence models which are trained in an end-to - end fashion with a maximum likelihood estimation loss ( See et al. , 2017 ; Celikyilmaz et al. , 2018 ; Paulus et al. , 2018 ; Gehrmann et al. , 2018 ) .
Despite promising results , there are specific characteristics of the summarization task which render it ill-suited to standard sequence - to-sequence training .
For instance , maximum-likelihood training on single reference datasets might not be optimal for summarization which is subject to a great deal of human variation ( Harman and Over , 2004 ; Nenkova , 2006 ) .
In the context of extractive summarization , different people select different sentences to include in a summary ( Rath et al. , 1961 ) , and when writing abstracts , disagreement exists both in terms of writing style and the specific content deemed important for the summary ( Harman and Over , 2004 ) .
Although summarization models would naturally benefit from multiple target references , it is unrealistic to expect that multi-reference datasets can be created at scale for neural network training .
In fact , most popular benchmarks are collated opportunistically , based on summaries which only loosely correspond to the source input .
For example , Narayan et al . ( 2018 ) create a dataset by pairing the first sentence of a news article with the rest of the document under the assumption that the introductory sentence expresses the gist of the article .
Grusky et al. ( 2018 ) pair articles with metadata available in HTML pages under the assumption that HTML tags ( e.g. , description ) denote summary - like content .
In other work Perez-Beltrachini et al. , 2019 ) , multidocument summarization datasets are created by viewing lead sections in Wikipedia articles as summaries of documents cited therein .
The inherent noise in the data collection process further hampers training with models often being prone to hallucination ( Song et al. , 2018 ; Maynez et al. , 2020 ) , and struggling to identify which content units are salient ( Tan et al. , 2017 ) .
In this paper , we propose to alleviate these problems by turning to knowledge distillation ( Bucilu et al. , 2006 ; Ba and Caruana , 2014 ; Hinton et al. , 2015 ; Kim and Rush , 2016 ) .
Knowledge distillation transfers knowledge from a larger " teacher " network to a smaller " student " model by training the student to imitate the teacher 's outputs ( in addition to learning from the training data set ) .
In " born- again networks " , ( Furlanello et al. , 2018 ) the teacher and student have the same neural archi-tecture and model size , and yet surprisingly the student is able to surpass the teacher 's accuracy .
Intuitively , such self-knowledge distillation is effective because the teacher 's output distribution provides a richer training signal capturing additional information about training examples .
In the context of summarization , the teacher can benefit student training in two ways .
It provides a softened distribution over reference summaries thereby enriching the single reference setting .
Moreover , the teacher 's distribution is ( to a certain extent ) denoised enabling the student to circumvent inaccuracies in the training data .
We further capitalize on the idea that both the teacher and the student should be robust to noise and introduce several noise injection techniques which together with knowledge distillation improve model generalization and performance .
We present experiments on several summarization benchmarks ( Narayan et al. , 2018 ; Perez-Beltrachini et al. , 2019 ; Hermann et al. , 2015 ) covering single - and multi-document summarization settings as well as different types of summaries ( e.g. , verbose or more telegraphic ) .
Across datasets , the proposed framework boosts the performance of pretrained and non-pretrained abstractive summarizers , achieving new state - of - the - art results .
Background
Neural Abstractive Summarization Neural approaches to abstractive summarization conceptualize the task as a sequence - to-sequence problem , where the encoder maps the sequence of tokens in the source document x = [ x 1 , ... , x n ] to a sequence of continuous representations z = [ z 1 , ... , z n ] , and the decoder autoregressively generates the target summary y = ( y 1 , ... , y m ) token - by-token , hence modeling the conditional probability p(y 1 , ... , y m |x 1 , ... , x n ) .
Rush et al. ( 2015 ) and Nallapati et al . ( 2016 ) were among the first to apply the neural encoderdecoder architecture to text summarization .
See et al. ( 2017 ) enhance this model with a pointergenerator network which allows to copy words from the source text , and a coverage mechanism which keeps track of words that have been summarized .
Other work develops abstractive models trained end-to-end with reinforcement learning based on multiple encoders and hierarchical attention ( Celikyilmaz et al. , 2018 ) or a coverage mechanism where the decoder attends over previously generated words ( Paulus et al. , 2018 ) . Gehrmann et al. ( 2018 ) follow a bottom - up approach where a content selector first determines which phrases in a source document should be part of the summary , and a copy mechanism is applied only to preselected phrases during decoding .
Although the majority of summarization systems are composed of LSTM units , Narayan et al . ( 2018 ) and ( Perez-Beltrachini et al. , 2019 ) propose abstractive models based on convolutional neural networks .
Pretrained language models have recently emerged as a key technology for achieving impressive gains in abstractive summarization Lewis et al. , 2020 ; Song et al. , 2019 ) .
These models first pretrain a language model with self-supervised objectives on large corpora and then fine - tune it on summarization datasets .
combine a pretrained encoder based on BERT ( Devlin et al. , 2019 ) with a randomly initialized decoder , demonstrating substantial gains on summarization performance .
Song et al. ( 2019 ) pretrain an encoder-decoder framework to reconstruct ( masked ) fragments within a sentence and then fine - tune it on summarization datasets .
In the same vein , Lewis et al . ( 2020 ) present BART , an encoder-decoder Transformer ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) , pretrained by reconstructing a text corrupted with several arbitrary noising functions .
Bao et al . ( 2020 ) design UNILMv2 , a Transformer - based neural network pretrained as a pseudo-masked language model .
introduce their own novel self-supervised task based on future n-gram prediction .
Knowledge Distillation Knowledge Distillation refers to a class of methods for training a new smaller student network by learning from a teacher network ( in addition to learning from the training data ) .
It is generally assumed that the teacher has been previously trained , and the parameters for the student are estimated by matching the student 's predictions to the teacher .
Let T and S denote teacher and student models , respectively .
Let f T and f S be functions of the teacher and student .
The models are typically neural networks and function f can be in principle defined using the output of any network layer ( e.g. , a hidden or softmax layer ) .
Knowledge distillation methods are commonly expressed as minimizing an objective function over training set X : L KD = x i ?X l(f T ( x i ) , f S ( x i ) ) ( 1 ) where l ( ) is a loss function that penalizes the difference between the teacher and the student .
Specific instantiations of this general framework include minimizing the teacher / student difference based on output logits , intermediate hidden representations , attention maps , and derivatives of the loss to the input ( Ba and Caruana , 2014 ; Romero et al. , 2014 ; Zagoruyko and Komodakis , 2017 ; .
Other work integrates an ensemble of teachers in order to improve the student ( Urban et al. , 2016 ) , trains a succession of students ( Furlanello et al. , 2018 ) , introduces a " teacher assistant " for better knowledge transfer ( Mirzadeh et al. , 2019 ) , and regularizes multi-task agents ( Parisotto et al. , 2015 ; Teh et al. , 2017 ) in reinforcement learning .
Compared to direct training , knowledge distillation provides a more stable training process which leads to better performing student models ( Hinton et al. , 2015 ; Phuong and Lampert , 2019 ) .
Recent work ( Furlanello et al. , 2018 ; Hahn and Choi , 2019 ) also sheds light on leveraging knowledge distillation for training a highperforming student model with the same size as the teacher ( see the discussion in the next section ) .
Knowledge distillation has been also shown to improve results for various NLP tasks .
use it to transfer knowledge from BERT to smaller models , helping them approach or exceed the quality of much larger pretrained neural networks .
Aside from distilling large models into smaller ones ( Kim and Rush , 2016 ; Mou et al. , 2016 ) or ensembles of models into single models ( Kuncoro et al. , 2016 ; , knowledge distillation has been further used in multi-task learning , e.g. , to teach a multi-task student from single - task teachers ( Clark et al. , 2019 ) .
Self - Knowledge Distillation for Text Summarization Self-knowledge distillation refers to the special case where the teacher and student have identical neural network architectures .
Surprisingly , perhaps , it has been consistently observed ( Furlanello et al. , 2018 ; Yang et al. , 2019 ; Ahn et al. , 2019 ; that students trained with self-knowledge distillation outperform their teachers by significant margins in several computer vision and language modeling tasks .
Recent efforts have also focused on understanding why this happens , e.g. , by observing that knowledge transferred by the teacher is localized mainly in higher layers and does not affect early ( feature extraction ) layers much ( Gotmare et al. , 2019 ) , by interpreting the teacher 's knowledge as importance weighting ( Furlanello et al. , 2018 ) , by showing that early - stopping is crucial ( Dong et al. , 2019 ) , and by studying how selfdistillation modifies regularization ( Mobahi et al. , 2020 ) .
For text summarization , we argue that selfknowledge distillation can potentially alleviate problems in conventional maximum likelihood training .
Summarization models are typically trained on single reference document-summary pairs , however considering a single summary as the only correct reference during maximum likelihood training can harm model generalization ( Elbayad et al. , 2018 ) and is counter-intuitive .
There can be multiple valid summaries for a source input ( Harman and Over , 2004 ; Nenkova , 2006 ) and even the single reference summaries available are not entirely goldstandard due to the inherent noise in the automatic construction of large-scale summarization datasets ( Kry?ci?ski et al. , 2019 ) .
With self-knowledge distillation , teacher outputs provide softened distributions of the reference summaries , which can be viewed as an enrichment of the single reference setting and a reweighting of gold summaries to prevent the student from becoming overconfident in its predictions .
The standard objective for an abstractive summarization model is negative log likelihood : L NLL = ?
T t=1 log ( p( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) ) ( 2 ) where x indicates the source document , y t 1 indicates the t-th token in the target summary and y t?1 1 are the first t ?
1 tokens in the target summary .
We further assume that the teacher is a fully trained neural model , the student has the same architecture with the teacher , and access to the learned teacher 's output distribution p T ( y t |y 1:t?1 , x ) ) : L KD = T t=1 KL (p T ( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) , p S ( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) ) ( 3 ) where p T ( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) and p S ( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) are model outputs from the teacher and student , respectively .
It is common practice to compensate for no direct access to the training data ( see Equation ( 3 ) ) by interpolating between the two losses in Equations ( 3 ) and ( 2 ) .
So , the final objective for training the student becomes : L FINAL = ( 1 ? ?)L NLL + ?L KD ( 4 ) where ? is a mixture parameter combining the onehot distribution and the teacher distribution .
We further want our summarization systems to be robust to natural noise found in existing datasets .
Injecting noise onto training samples has been proven useful for improving model generalization .
We extend this idea for knowledge distillation , and propose a novel framework for introducing noise to both distillation signals and training data .
We design different noise mechanisms for the teacher and student , and select the best noise configuration experimentally .
Noisy Teacher
To inject noise into the distillation signals , we incorporate a teacher dropout mechanism ( Bul ?
et al. , 2016 ) , where dropout is kept active while generating teacher predictions for training the student .
In this manner , the teacher generates variable supervision labels for the student with some degree of uncertainty , alleviating the problem of overfitting to the teacher predictions .
Meanwhile , it can also be considered as approximating an average ensemble from many neural networks ( Bul ?
et al. , 2016 ) .
The knowledge distillation loss now becomes : L KD = T t=1 KL ( p ? T ( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) , p S ( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) ) ( 5 ) where p?
T indicates the predictions from the teacher model with active dropout ?.
Noisy Student
To inject noise into the training data , we propose various mechanisms to perturb the source input .
Random perturbation is effective in enforcing local smoothness for training text generation models under the assumption that semantically similar inputs can be mapped to the same or similar targets .
A related approach has been shown to improve the performance of machine translation models in self-training settings .
For text summarization , where the input is usually a long document , we design the following perturbation policies :
1 . Word Drop : a word in the source document is removed with probability p d .
2 . Word Replacement : for each word x i in the source document , we calculate a candidate replacement list by selecting k words most similar to x i from the vocabulary .
The similarity is calculated as the cosine distance between the embedding of x i and embeddings of all other words in the vocabulary .
Then , a source word is replaced with a word randomly selected from its candidate replacement list with probability p r .
3 . Sentence Drop : a sentence in the source document is removed with probability p s .
4 . Gaussian Noise : a Gaussian noise vector e is multiplied with the embeddings x of input words : x ? x ? e , e ? N ( I , ? 2 I ) .
These perturbation policies can be applied simultaneously or successively as a pipeline .
We experimentally found the best combination for our task to be the sequential application of word drop , followed by word replacement , and sentence drop .
Although Gaussian noise has been effective in natural language understanding tasks ( Zhang and Yang , 2018 ) , we found it not to be helfpul in our summarization experiments .
The knowledge distillation loss with a student trained on noisy data becomes : L KD = T t=1 KL ( p ? T ( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) , p S ( y t |y t?1 1 , x ) ) ( 6 ) where x indicates perturbed source input .
Experimental Setup
In this section , we describe the summarization datasets used in our experiments and discuss various implementation details .
Summarization Datasets
We evaluated our model on two singledocument summarization datasets , namely the CNN / DailyMail news highlights ( Hermann et al. , 2015 ) and XSum ( Narayan et al. , 2018 ) XSum contains 226,711 news articles accompanied with a one-sentence summary , answering the question " What is this article about ? " .
We used the splits of Narayan et al . ( 2018 ) for training , validation , and testing ( 204,045/11,332/11,334 ) and followed the pre-processing introduced in their work .
Input documents were also truncated to 512 tokens .
WikiCatSum is a multi-document summarization dataset derived from WikiSum .
The target summary is the lead section of a Wikipedia article , and the source input are webpages related to this article .
WikiCatSum ( Perez-Beltrachini et al. , 2019 ) represents three domains from the original Wikisum dataset under the assumption that these vary in terms of the topics the summaries discuss and their linguistic characteristics .
Aside from the summaries , the dataset contains the input webpages whose length is truncated to the first 800 tokens .
WikiCatSum contains 62,545 samples for the Company domain , 59,973 samples for the Film domain , and 60,816 samples for the Animal domain .
Implementation Details
For all datasets , we evaluated our self-knowledge distillation framework in two settings .
In the first setting , our models are non-pretrained while in the second setting we take advantage of pretrained language models which have demonstrated impressive improvements in summarization ( Lewis et al. , 2020 ; Bao et al. , 2020 ) .
Specifically , we adopt UNILMv2 ( Bao et al. , 2020 ) as the pretrained model .
UNILMv2 is a Transformer - based neural network ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) heads .
It is pretrained as a pseudo-masked language model on a large corpus ( label smoothing is applied with smoothing factor 0.1 ) .
We fine- tuned our teacher models following the procedure outlined in Bao et al . ( 2020 ) .
In the non-pretrained setting , we adopt a Transformer encoder- decoder model with 6 layers , 768 hidden size and 2,048 feed - forward filter size .
Label smoothing was also used with smoothing factor 0.1 .
All teacher models in this setting were trained from randomly initialized parameters following .
In all knowledge distillation experiments , student models have the same neural network architecture with their teachers and are trained with the same hyperparameters as the teacher models .
The best teacher and student model are selected by evaluating perplexity on the development set .
For noisy distillation models , word drop probability p d was set to 0.1 .
The candidate length k for word replacement was 10 and word replacement probability p r was 0.1 .
Sentence drop probability p s was 0.05 .
During decoding we used beam search ( size 5 ) , and tuned ? for the length penalty ( Wu et al. , 2016 ) between 0.6 and 1 on the validation set ; we decode until an end-of-sequence token is emitted .
Repeated trigrams are blocked ( Paulus et al. , 2018 ) .
Results
Automatic Evaluation
We evaluated summarization quality automatically using ROUGE ( Lin , 2004 ) .
We report unigram and bigram overlap ( ROUGE - 1 and ROUGE - 2 ) as a means of assessing informativeness and the longest common subsequence ( ROUGE -L ) as a means of assessing fluency .
Examples of system output are shown in Table 5 .
Table 1 summarizes our results on the CNN / DailyMail and XSum ( single document ) datasets .
The first block includes the results of non-pretrained models .
We present the LEAD baseline ( which simply selects the first three sentences in a document for CNN / DailyMail and the first sentence for XSum ) .
We also report the results of See et al . 's ( 2017 ) pointer generator network ( PTRNET ) , and an abstractive system from based on Transformers ( TransformerAbs ; see Section 4.2 for details ) .
The latter forms the backbone of our self-knowledge distillation models ( SKD ) .
We present a variant without noise ( + SKD ) , a variant with noise in the teacher training signal ( + Noisy T ) , and a third variant where the student is additionally trained on noisy data ( + Noisy S ) .
The second and third blocks in Table 1 include the results of pretrained models .
To make comparisons fairer , we separate LARGE -( second block ) from BASE - size ( third block ) pretrained models based on parameter size ( shown within parentheses ) .
With regard to LARGE - size models , we report the results of three very strong summarization systems finetuned with UNILM LARGE ( Bao et al. , 2020 ) , BART LARGE ( Lewis et al. , 2020 ) , and T5 11B ( Raffel et al. , 2019 ) .
Our BASE - size models include BERTSUM BASE summarizer based on a BASE - size BERT encoder and a randomly initialized decoder , MASS BASE ( Song et al. , 2019 ) and UNILM BASE which are both finetuned with BASE - size pretrained models .
As can be seen in Table 1 , SKD improves over teacher models in both pretrained ( BASE -size ) and non-pretrained settings .
We also observe that injection of noise brings further improvements with noise in the training signal ( + Noisy T ) seeming more effective compared to noisy data augmentation ( + Noisy S ) .
Overall , we obtain competitive results with SKD and BASE - size pretrained models and even manage to outperform UNILM LARGE and T5 11B on the CNN / DailyMail dataset .
Table 2 presents experimental results on the Wi-kiCatSum dataset .
The first block in the table includes results for non-pretrained models .
CV - S2S and CV - S2D ( Perez-Beltrachini et al. , 2019 ) are convolutional encoder-decoder models .
The former is a standard convolutional decoder , while the latter adopts a hierarchical convolutional decoder which first generates target sentence vectors , and then generates target words based on sentence vectors .
TF - S2S is a standard Transformer encoder-decoder model trained on WikiCatSum ( Perez-Beltrachini et al. , 2019 ) . TF - S2S is the model used in our SKD system and its noisy version ( + Noisy T , + Noisy S ) .
The second block includes the results of a system using the BASE - size pretrained model UNILM BASE on its own and with SKD .
Results are reported per domain ( Company , Film , and Animal ) and across domains ( All ) .
Under pretrained and non-pretrained settings , we observe that SKD boosts the performance of the teacher model ( UNILM BASE and TF - S2S , respectively ) and that the injection of noise is beneficial .
Improvements in performance vary across domains , with Film showing the least gains .
Column
All in
Factual Consistency Evaluation Besides ROUGE , we also use FactCC ( Kry?ci?ski et al. , 2019 ) to evaluate the factual correctness of the generated summaries .
FactCC is a BERT - based classifier trained to identify conflicts between a source document and a generated summary .
Given a document-sentence pair as input , it assigns a positive label if factual information mentioned in a summary sentence is consistent with the document , otherwise it assigns a negative label .
We view the percentage of positive labels assigned by FactCC to all generated summaries as a factual correctness score for a summarization system .
We performed experiments with the publicly released version of FactCC .
2 Our results on the CNN / DailyMail and XSum datasets are presented in Table 3 .
Here , we only focus on single-document summarization , as there is no version of FactCC trained on multi-document datasets .
As can be seen , the application of SKD ( trained with noisy signals and on noisy data ) improves factual consistency for non-pretrained and pretrained models on both datasets .
All + Noisy SKD students are significantly ( p < 0.05 ) more factually correct compared to their teachers ( TransformerAbs and UNILMv2 BASE ) , using a paired student t-test .
Human Evaluation
In addition to automatic evaluation , we also assessed system output by eliciting human judgments .
We compared the quality of the summaries produced by a teacher model ( UNILMv2 against its distilled student ( + Noisy SKD ) .
For CNN / DailyMail and XSum , human participants were presented with the output of two systems ( and the original document ) and asked to decide which one was better according to the following criteria : Succinctness ( Does the summary avoid repetition ? ) , Informativeness ( Does the summary capture the document 's most important information ? ) , and Fluency ( Is the summary fluent and grammatical ? ) .
Evaluation was conducted on the Amazon Mechanical Turk crowdsourcing platform .
We used the same test documents ( 20 in total ) from for both CNN / DailyMail and XSum .
We elicited five responses per HIT .
Systems were rated along each dimension , and assigned a score corresponding to the proportion of times a system was selected as better against another .
Human evaluation results are shown in Table 4 ( upper part ) .
On both CNN / DailyMail and XSum datasets participants perceive the student ( + Noisy SKD ) as significantly ( p < 0.05 ) more succinct and informative compared to the teacher ( UNILMv2 BASE ) .
However , on Fluency , the student tends to be worse .
Upon inspection we found student summaries to be rather telegraphic , and hypothesize that crowdworkers tend to penalize them in terms of fluency , even though they are grammatical .
Human evaluation was performed slightly different for WikiCatSum .
Recall that this is a multidocument dataset , where input documents are discontinuous webpage fragments .
To allow participants to perform the experiment in a timely fashion , we used the gold summary as a proxy for the content of the input .
Crowdworkers were presented with the output of two systems ( again UNILMv2 BASE and + Noisy SKD ) and asked to decide which one was better according to the in-formation contained in the gold summary .
Evaluation was conducted on AMT , we randomly selected 20 samples from the test set and elicited three responses per HIT .
For each domain , we report the proportion of times a system was chosen as better .
Human evaluation results are shown in Table 4 ( lower part ) .
AMT
Crowdworkers prefer the summaries produced by the student for the Animal and Film domains , but not for Company ; we found that the distilled model tends to generate too many entities in one sentence which render the summaries too dense for this domain .
Conclusions
In this paper we advocated the use of selfknowledge distillation for abstractive summarization , as a means to alleviate problems associated with maximum -likelihood training for this task .
We also introduced several noise functions ( in the training signal and training data ) which help regularize training and further boost performance .
Experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate that our framework can improve both nonpretrained and pretrained summarizers .
In the future we would like to investigate more thoroughly which aspects of pretrained models improve and how self -knowledge distillation can be enhanced with more sophisticated noise functions .
Table 1 : 1 , ROUGE F1 results on CNN / DailyMail and XSUM test sets ( R1 and R2 are shorthands for unigram and bigram overlap ; RL is the longest common subsequence ) .
SKD refers to a system trained with self-knowledge distillation , Noisy T are SKD models trained with noisy signals while Noisy S are student models trained on noisy data .
Results for comparison systems are taken from the authors ' respective papers or obtained on our data by running publicly released software .
Table 2 : 2 with 12 Transformer layers and 12 attention ROUGE F1 results on WikiCatSum test sets ( R1 and R2 are shorthands for unigram and bigram overlap ; RL is the longest common subsequence ) .
Results are reported separately on three domains and in combination ( All ) .
SKD refers to systems trained with self-knowledge distillation , Noisy T are SKD systems trained with noisy signals , and Noisy S are SKD students trained on noisy data .
Results for comparison systems are taken from the authors ' respective papers or obtained on our data by running publicly released software .
Company Film Animal All Without Pretraining R1 R2 RL R1 R2 RL R1 R2 RL R1 R2 RL CV -S2S 24.5 9.4 19.9 34.6 19.8 30.7 42.2 28.4 38.5 33.8 19.2 29.7 CV -S2D 27.6 10.5 21.3 37.7 20.8 32.0 42.3 27.3 37.1 35.9 19.5 30.1 TF -S2S 26.0 9.5 20.4 36.5 18.8 31.0 44.0 28.8 40.0 35.5 19.0 30.5 + SKD 26.8 9.9 20.9 37.2 19.3 31.8 44.3 29.0 40.3 36.1 19.4 31.0 + SKD + Noisy T 27.2 10.3 21.0 37.7 20.6 32.0 44.6 29.1 40.4 36.5 20.0 31.1 + SKD + Noisy T + Noisy S 27.4 10.4 21.3 37.9 21.0 32.2 44.6 29.0 40.4 36.6 20.1 31.3 With Pretraining R1 R2 RL R1 R2 RL R1 R2 RL R1 R2 RL UNILMv2 BASE 33.32 14.36 25.39 42.51 25.92 36.54 45.45 31.69 40.91 40.4 24.0 34.3 + SKD 33.20 14.66 25.53 42.39 25.90 36.53 45.59 31.87 41.12 40.4 24.1 34.4 + SKD + Noisy T 33.42 14.87 25.80 42.60 26.02 36.65 45.75 32.19 41.30 40.6 24.4 34.6 + SKD + Noisy T + Noisy S 33.50 14.95 25.85 42.71 26.09 36.77 45.86 32.23 41.40 40.7 24.4 34.7
Table 3 : 3 Factual correctness on CNN / DailyMail and XSum test set .
+ Noisy SKD are students trained on noisy signals and noisy data . , a
Table 2 shows average ROUGE across domains .
Although SKD and noise injection improve results , we observe that non-pretrained models benefit more .
CNN / DailyMail Succinct Inform Fluent UNILMv2 BASE 0.47 0.40 0.54 + Noisy SKD 0.53 0.60 0.46 XSum Succinct Inform Fluent UNILMv2 BASE 0.46 0.36 0.53 + Noisy SKD 0.54 0.64 0.47 WikiCatSum Company Film Animal UNILMv2 BASE 0.62 0.47 0.45 + Noisy SKD 0.38 0.53 0.55 Table 4 : Human evaluation on CNN / DailyMail , XSum , and WikicatSum test sets .
+ Noisy SKD is UNILMv2 BASE trained with self-knowledge distillation ( on noisy signals and noisy data ) .
All pairwise differ - ences between systems are significant ( p < 0.05 ) using a paired t-test .
millennials say they 'll marry if and when they want .
He says that 's not the case ; they 're happily single and happy .
Granderson says marriage is about family , not money .
UNILMV2 LZ Granderson : millennials say they do n't care what their generation thinks about marriage .
He says they 'll get married if and when they want .
LZ : marriage is linked to economic well - being , but it 's not clear if that 's true .
+ Noisy SKD Carol Costello : talk to any millennial and you can envision an America virtually marriagefree .
In countries like Sweden or Denmark , people do n't feel pressured to marry even if they have kids together .
XSum GOLD
More than half of pupils in Wales have passed their GCSE exam for the third year running .
UNILMV2
More than 66.6 % of pupils in Wales have achieved the top grades in their GCSE exams .
+ Noisy SKD
Two thirds of Welsh pupils who took GCSEs got A* to C grades , according to this year 's results .
Chilabothrus Argentum ) is a species of boa described in May 2016 .
It is only known from the conception island bank in the Bahamas .
It is the first known discovery of a West Indian boa species in 73 years .
It is named for its unique silver color .
UNILMV2
The Conception Bank silver boa ( Chilabothrus Argentum ) is a species of snake in the family Boidae .
It is endemic to the Bahamas .
The species was discovered on Conception Island Bank , which comprises uninhabited islets .
+ Noisy SKD
The Conception Bank silver boa ( Chilabothrus Argentum ) is a species of nonvenomous boa endemic to the Bahamas .
It was discovered in 2016 on Conception Island Bank , an uninhabited islet in the Bahamas .
CNN / Daily Mail GOLD LZ Granderson : WikiCatSum ( Animal ) GOLD
The Conception Bank silver boa ( 699 BASE )
Table 5 : 5 GOLD reference summaries and automatic summaries produced by UNILMv2 BASE and its distilled student on the CNN / DailyMail , XSum , and WikiCatSum datasets .
Our code is available at https://github.com/ nlpyang / NoisySumm .
https://github.com/salesforce/factCC
