title
Data Science Implementation Natural Language Processing  
abstract
ASPECT REPRESENTATION
We re ned the aspect embeddings by using the sparse coef cient vectors of highly correlated words .
The argument behind this is that aspects words usually contain important information and context information often has a high connection to the aspects .
Again , for each aspect , we compute the context - aware aspect embeddings by minimising the squared Euclidean distance between aspect embeddings , context - aware target embeddings , and irrelevant embeddings .
This would ne-tuned our aspect embeddings to move closer to our highly correlated target embeddings and move away from irrelevant ones .
Experiments and Results
There are two evaluation datasets : SentiHood and SemEval 2015 Task 12 .
MODELS COMPARISON
21/02/2022 , 22:03 Day 123 : NLP Papers Summary - Context - aware Embedding for Targeted Aspect- based Sentiment Analysis ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/02/day-123-nlp-papers-summary-context-aware-embedding-for-targeted-aspect-based-sentimen?
2/8 goal of TABSA is that given an input sentence , we want to extract the sentiment of the aspect that belongs to a target .
Figure below showcase the TABSA task :
The contributions are as follows :
1 . Construct context - aware embeddings for targets by using sparse coef cient vectors to identify words that are highly correlated to the targets and re ning the target embeddings accordingly 2 .
Fine-tuned aspect embeddings to be as close to the highly correlated target NLP Papers Summary - Context - aware Embedding for Targeted Aspect - based Sentiment Analysis ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/02/day-123-nlp-papers-summary-context-aware-embedding-for-targeted-aspect-based-sentimen?
3/8
The model framework has the following steps :
1 . Sentence embedding matrix
X is feed into the fully connected layer and step function to create sparse coef cient vector u' .
2 . The hidden output of u ' is used to re ne the target and aspect embeddings
3 . Compute the squared Euclidean function and train the model to minimise the distance to obtain the nal re ned embeddings for target and aspect TARGET REPRESENTATION
The re ned target embeddings can be computed by multiplying the sentence word embeddings X with the sparse coef cient vector u' .
The sparse coef cient vector showcase the importance of different words in the context using a step function .
For each target , we compute the context - aware target embedding by iteratively minimising the squared Euclidean distance between the target and the highly correlative words in the sentence .
1 . LSTM - Final .
BiLSTM that only uses the nal hidden states 2 . LSTM - Loc. BiLSTM that uses the hidden states where the location target is 3 . SenticLSTM .
BiLSTM that uses external knowledge ? ? 21/02/2022 , 22:03 Day 123 : NLP Papers Summary - Context - aware Embedding for Targeted Aspect- based Sentiment Analysis ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/02/day-123-nlp-papers-summary-context-aware-embedding-for-targeted-aspect-based-sentimen?
4/8 4 . Delayed - Memory .
Delayed memory mechanism 5 . RE + SenticLSTM .
Our re ned embeddings + SenticLSTM 6 . RE + Delayed - Memory .
Our re ned embeddings + Delayed - Memory RESULTS For SentiHood , our proposed methods added on top of SenticLSTM and Delayed - Memory achieved better performance than the original models in both aspect detection and sentiment classi cation .
Our context - aware embeddings has allowed models to better capture aspects and sentiment information as we are able to better model the interconnection between the target , its aspects and the context .
For SemEval 2015 , we showcase similar results with our proposed methods outperforming the original models .
Below is the gure that visualise our proposed context - aware embeddings vs the original aspect embeddings using TSNE .
As shown , there are more separation between different aspects using our context - aware embeddings , showcasing its ability to distinguish between different aspects in the context as well as its ability to capture the common traits of speci c aspects .
? ? 21/02/2022 , 22:03 Day 123 : NLP Papers Summary - Context - aware Embedding for Targeted Aspect- based Sentiment Analysis ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/02/day-123-nlp-papers-summary-context-aware-embedding-for-targeted-aspect-based-sentimen?
5/8 Ryan Data Scientist Conclusion and Future Work
By selecting and using highly correlated words to re ne targets and aspects embeddings , we are able to extract the interconnection between speci c target , its aspect and its context , to generate a better meaningful embedding .
Future work involves exploring this method for other similar NLP tasks .
Source : https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P19-1462.pdf ? ?
