title
21/02/2022 , 22:03 Day 103 : NLP Papers Summary - Utilizing BERT for Aspect - Based Sentiment Analysis via Constructing Auxil …
abstract
Experiments and Results
There are two experiment settings as we have two different datasets here .
which 3862 contain a single target and the remainder multiple targets
Each sentence contains a list of target -aspect pairs with the sentiment polarity Given a sentence and the target , we need to Detect mention of an aspect for the target Determine polarity for the detected target-aspect pairs SEMEVAL - 2014 TASK 4
This is ABSA and not TABSA and so they do n't have target - aspect pairs , just aspect .
Allows the model to tackle subtask 3 ( Aspect Detection ) and subtask 4 ( Aspect Polarity ) at the same time .
Methodology
The paper uses 4 methods to construct auxiliary sentences to convert TABSA to a sentence pair classi cation task .
Using ( LOCATION1 , safety ) as a target-aspect pair : Sentences for QA -M ? ? 21/02/2022 , 22:03 Day 103 : NLP Papers Summary - Utilizing BERT for Aspect - Based Sentiment Analysis via Constructing Auxil ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/04/12/day-103-nlp-research-papers-utilizing-bert-for-aspect-based-sentiment-analysis-via-constructi?
3/9The sentence we want to generate from target - aspect pair is a question and the format needs to be the same " What do you think of the safety of location - 1 ?" Sentences for NLI -
MThe sentence created there is not a standard sentence but a simple pseudoand converted TABSA into a binary classi cation problem of yes or no to obtain the probability distribution Each target - aspect pair will generate three sequences such as : " the polarity of the aspect safety of location - 1 is positive " " the polarity of the aspect safety of location - 1 is negative " " the polarity of the aspect safety of location - 1 is none " We use the probability value of yes as the matching score and take the class of sequence with the highest matching score for the predicted
NLP Papers Summary - Utilizing BERT for Aspect - Based Sentiment Analysis via Constructing Auxil ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/04/12/day-103-nlp-research-papers-utilizing-bert-for-aspect-based-sentiment-analysis-via-constructi?
4/9 SENTIHOOD EXPERIMENT SETUP
The evaluation of SentiHood only consider the 4 most frequently seen aspects in the dataset ( general , price , transit-location , safety ) .
The following are the chosen models for comparisons : outperformed Dmu-Entnet in aspect detection but scored a lower accuracy in sentiment classi cation accuracy ?
