title
Day 236 : NLP Papers Summary - A BERT Based Sentiment Analysis And Key Entity Detection Approach For Online Financial Texts
abstract
Objectives and Contributions Used BERT to perform sentiment analysis and key entity detection on nancial texts .
We consider key entity detection as a sentence matching task .
We proposed an ensemble learning that outperformed SVM , LR , NBM , and BERT for two nancial sentiment analysis and key entity detection datasets .
We combine sentiment analysis and key entity detection in a uni ed approach based on RoBERTa .
We ne-tuned RoBERTa using different methods to implement sentiment analysis and key entity detection .
With sentiment analysis , we focus speci cally on the negative emotion information .
With key entity detection , we were able to match each nancial entity with its text to detect the key entities of negative information .
In terms of step 3 , in certain ne-grained tasks , we are required to select the most relevant key entities based on the tags of the nancial text .
Tags can be corruption , fraud etc .
This is more of a machine reading comprehension ( MRC ) task and therefore , we treat each nancial text as an MRC article and rewrite its tag as MRC questions .
The answers predicted by the MRC model are considered to be key entities .
Methodology
Experiments and Results
DATASET
Existing entity detection methods cannot detect key entities , let alone selecting the most relevant entities with tags .
Therefore , we propose RoBERTa based sentiment analysis and key entity detection approach for online nancial texts as follows :
1 . Analyse the sentiment of text using RoBERTa ( classic ) 2 . Get nancial entity list and select key entities 3 . Select the key entity with tags
In terms of step 2 , for each piece of nancial data , we use NER to get a list of entities .
In the coarse- grained task , we detected some key entities related to the nancial text from the entity list .
As shown in the gure below , we feed each entity and the nancial text into RoBERTa and use RoBERTa as a sentence matching model to determine whether each entity is a key entity .
The number of models is determined by the number of entities .
We would form a list of key entities of those entities that are predicted as key by RoBERTa .
? ? 21/02/2022 , 22:03 Day 236 : NLP Papers Summary - A BERT based Sentiment Analysis and Key Entity Detection Approach for ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/08/23/day-236-nlp-papers-summary-a-bert-based-sentiment-analysis-and-key-entity-detection-appr? 3/7
We used two datasets : Negative Financial Information and Subject Deter-mination 2019 and Event Subject Extraction for Financial Field .
The table below showcase the descriptive statistics of the dataset .
Our evaluation metrics are accuracy rate for sentiment analysis and F1 score for key entity detection .
NLP Papers Summary - A BERT based Sentiment Analysis and Key Entity Detection Approach for ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/08/23/day-236-nlp-papers-summary-a-bert-based-sentiment-analysis-and-key-entity-detection-appr?
4NLP Papers Summary - A BERT based Sentiment Analysis and Key Entity Detection Approach for ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/08/23/day-236-nlp-papers-summary-a-bert-based-sentiment-analysis-and-key-entity-detection-appr?
5/7 You May Also Like Day 365 : NLP Papers Summary - A Survey on Knowledge Graph Embedding Ryan NLP Papers Summary - A BERT based Sentiment Analysis and Key Entity Detection Approach for ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/08/23/day-236-nlp-papers-summary-a-bert-based-sentiment-analysis-and-key-entity-detection-appr? 6/7 Day 364 : Ryan's PhD Journey - OpenKE - PyTorch Library Analysis + code snippets for 11 KE modelsRyan
