title
An Interactive Machine Translation System with Online Learning
abstract
State- of- the-art Machine Translation ( MT ) systems are still far from being perfect .
An alternative is the so-called Interactive Machine Translation ( IMT ) framework , where the knowledge of a human translator is combined with the MT system .
We present a statistical IMT system able to learn from user feedback by means of the application of online learning techniques .
These techniques allow the MT system to update the parameters of the underlying models in real time .
According to empirical results , our system outperforms the results of conventional IMT systems .
To the best of our knowledge , this online learning capability has never been provided by previous IMT systems .
Our IMT system is implemented in C ++ , JavaScript , and ActionScript ; and is publicly available on the Web .
Introduction
The research in the field of machine translation ( MT ) aims to develop computer systems which are able to translate text or speech without human intervention .
However , current translation technology has not been able to deliver full automated highquality translations .
Typical solutions to improve the quality of the translations supplied by an MT system require manual post-editing .
This serial process prevents the MT system from integrating the knowledge of the human translator .
An alternative way to take advantage of the existing MT technologies is to use them in collaboration with human translators within a computer -assisted translation ( CAT ) or interactive framework ( Isabelle and Church , 1997 ) .
Interactivity in CAT has been explored for a long time .
Systems have been designed to interact with linguists to solve ambiguities or update user dictionaries .
An important contribution to CAT technology was pioneered by the TransType project ( Foster et al. , 1997 ; .
The idea proposed in that work was to embed data driven MT techniques within the interactive translation environment .
Following the TransType ideas , Barrachina et al. ( 2009 ) proposed the so-called IMT framework , in which fully -fledged statistical MT ( SMT ) systems are used to produce full target sentences hypotheses , or portions thereof , which can be accepted or amended by a human translator .
Each corrected text segment is then used by the MT system as additional information to achieve improved suggestions .
Figure 1 shows an example of a typical IMT session .
The vast majority of the existing work on IMT makes use of the well - known batch learning paradigm .
In the batch learning paradigm , the training of the IMT system and the interactive translation process are carried out in separate stages .
This paradigm is not able to take advantage of the new knowledge produced by the user of the IMT system .
In this paper , we present an application of the online learning paradigm to the IMT framework .
In the online learning paradigm , the training and prediction stages are no longer separated .
This feature is particularly useful in IMT since it allows to take into account the user feedback .
Specifically , our proposed IMT system can be extended with the new training samples that are generated each time the user validates the translation of a given source sentence .
The online learning techniques implemented in our IMT system incrementally update the statistical models involved in the translation process .
Related work
There are some works on IMT in the literature that try to take advantage of user feedback .
One example is the work by Nepveu et al . ( 2004 ) , where dynamic adaptation of an IMT system via cache - based model extensions to language and translation models is proposed .
One major drawback of such proposal is its inability to learn new words .
Figure 1 : IMT session to translate a Spanish sentence into English .
In interaction - 0 , the system suggests a translation ( e s ) .
In interaction - 1 , the user moves the mouse to accept the first eight characters " To view " and presses the a key ( k ) , then the system suggests completing the sentence with " list of resources " ( a new e s ) .
Interactions 2 and 3 are similar .
In the final interaction , the user accepts the current suggestion .
Recent research on IMT has proposed the use of online learning as one possible way to successfully incorporate user feedback in IMT systems ( Ortiz-Mart ?
nez et al. , 2010 ) .
In the online learning setting , models are trained sample by sample .
For this reason , such learning paradigm is appropriate for its use in the IMT framework .
The work by Ortiz-Mart ? nez et al. ( 2010 ) implements online learning as incremental learning .
Specifically , an IMT system able to incrementally update the parameters of all of the different models involved in the interactive translation process is proposed .
One previous attempt to implement online learning in IMT is the work by Cesa-Bianchi et al . ( 2008 ) .
In that work , the authors present a very constrained version of online learning , which is not able to extend the translation models due to the high time cost of the learning process .
We have adopted the online learning techniques proposed in ( Ortiz-Mart ?
nez et al. , 2010 ) to implement our IMT system .
We are not aware of other IMT tools that include such functionality .
For instance , a prototype system for text prediction to help translators is shown in ( Foster et al. , 2002 ) .
Additionally , Koehn ( 2009 ) presents the Caitra translation tool .
Caitra aids linguists suggesting sentence completions , alternative words or allowing users to post-edit machine translation output .
However , neither of these systems are able to take advantage of the user validated translations .
Interactive Machine Translation IMT can be seen as an evolution of the statistical machine translation ( SMT ) framework .
In SMT , given source string f , we seek for the target string e which maximizes the posterior probability : ? = argmax e P r( e|f ) ( 1 )
Within the IMT framework , a state - of - the - art SMT system is employed in the following way .
For a given source sentence , the SMT system automatically generates an initial translation .
A human translator checks this translation from left to right , correcting the first error .
The SMT system then proposes a new extension , taking the correct prefix e p into account .
These steps are repeated until the whole input sentence has been correctly translated .
In the resulting decision rule , we maximize over all possible extensions e s of e p : ?s = argmax es P r(e s |e p , f ) ( 2 ) It is worth to note that the user interactions are at character level , that is , for each submitted keystroke the system provides a new extension ( or suffix ) to the current hypothesis .
A typical IMT session for a given source sentence is depicted in Figure 1 . State- of- the- art SMT systems follow a log-linear approach ( Och and Ney , 2002 ) , where the posterior probability P r(e | f ) of Eq. ( 1 ) is used .
Such loglinear approach can be easily adapted for its use in the IMT framework as follows : ?s = argmax es M m=1 ? m h m ( e p , e s , f ) ( 3 ) where each h m ( e p , e s , f ) is a feature function representing a statistical model and ?
m its corresponding weight .
Typically , a set of statistical generative models are used as feature functions .
Among this feature functions , the most relevant are the language and translation models .
The language model is implemented using statistical n-gram language models and the translation model is implemented using phrase - based models .
The IMT system proposed here is based on a loglinear SMT system which includes a total of seven feature functions : an n-gram language model , a target sentence length model , inverse and direct phrasebased models , source and target phrase length models and a reordering model .
Online Learning
In the online learning paradigm , learning proceeds as a sequence of trials .
In each trial , a sample is presented to the learning algorithm to be classified .
Once the sample is classified , its correct label is told to the learning algorithm .
The online learning paradigm fits nicely in the IMT framework , since the interactive translation of the source sentences generates new user-validated training samples that can be used to extend the statistical models involved in the translation process .
One key aspect in online learning is the time required by the learning algorithm to process the new training samples .
One way to satisfy this constraint is to obtain incrementally updateable versions of the algorithms that are executed to train the statistical models involved in the translation process .
We have adopted this approach to implement our IMT system .
Specifically , our proposed IMT system implements the set of training algorithms that are required to incrementally update each component of the loglinear model .
Such log-linear model is composed of seven components ( see section 3 ) .
One key aspect of the required training algorithms is the necessity to replace the conventional expectation - maximization ( EM ) algorithm by its incremental version ( Neal and Hinton , 1998 ) .
The complete details can be found in ( Ortiz-Mart ?
nez et al. , 2010 ) .
System Overview
In this section the main features of our prototype are shown , including prototype design , interaction protocol , prototype functionalities and demo usage .
Prototype Design Prototype architecture has been built on two main aspects , namely , accessibility and flexibility .
The former is necessary to reach a larger number of potential users .
The latter allows researchers to test different techniques and interaction protocols .
For that reason , we developed an CAT Application Programming Interface ( API ) between the client and the actual translation engine , by using a network communication protocol and exposing a well - defined set of functions .
A diagram of the architecture is shown in Fig- ure 2 .
On the one hand , the IMT client provides a User Interface ( UI ) which uses the API to communicate with the IMT server through the Web .
The hardware requirements in the client are very low , as the translation process is carried out remotely on the server , so virtually any computer ( including netbooks , tablets or 3G mobile phones ) should be fairly enough .
On the other hand , the server , which is unaware of the implementation details of the IMT client , uses and adapts the statistical models that are used to perform the translation .
User Interaction Protocol
The protocol that rules the IMT process has the following steps : 1 . The system proposes a full translation of the selected text segment .
2 . The user validates the longest prefix of the translation which is error-free and / or corrects the first error in the suffix .
Corrections are entered by amendment keystrokes or mouse clicks / wheel operations .
3 . In this way , a new extended consolidated prefix is produced based on the previous validated prefix and the interaction amendments .
Using this new prefix , the system suggests a suitable continuation of it .
4 . Steps 2 and 3 are iterated until the user-desired translation is produced .
5 . The system adapts the models to the new validated pair of sentences .
Prototype Functionality
The following is a list of the main features that the prototype supports : ?
When the user corrects the solution proposed by the system , a new improved suffix is presented to the user .
?
The system is able to learn from user-validated translations . ?
The user is able to perform actions by means of keyboard shortcuts or mouse gestures .
The supported actions on the proposed suffix are : Substitution Substitute the first word or character of the suffix .
Deletion Delete the first word of the suffix .
Insertion Insert a word before the suffix .
Rejection
The rejected word will not appear in the following proposals .
Acceptance Assume that the current translation is correct and adapt the models .
?
At any time , the user is able to visualize the original document ( Figure 4 ( a ) ) , as well as a properly formated draft of the current translation ( Figure 4 ( b ) ) .
?
Users can select the document to be translated from a list or upload their own documents .
Demo Description and Usage
This demo exploits the WWW to enable the connection of simultaneous accesses across the globe , coordinating client-side scripting with server-side technologies .
The interface uses web technologies such as XHTML , JavaScript , and ActionScript ; while the IMT engine is written in C ++.
The prototype is publicly available on the Web ( http://cat.iti.upv.es/imt/).
To begin with , the UI loads an index of all available translation corpora .
Currently , the prototype can be tested with the well - known Europarl corpora ( Koehn , 2005 ) .
The user chooses a corpus and navigates to the main interface page ( Figure 3 ) , where she interactively translates the text segments one by one .
User 's feedback is then processed by the IMT server .
All corrections are stored in plain text logs on the server , so the user can retake them in any moment , also allowing collaborative translations between users .
On the other hand , this prototype allows uploading custom documents in text format .
Since the users operate within a web browser , the system also provides crossplatform compatibility and requires neither computational power nor disk space on the client 's machine .
The communication between application and web server is based on asynchronous HTTP connections , providing thus a richer interactive experience ( no page refreshes are required . )
Moreover , the Web server communicates with the IMT engine through binary TCP sockets , ensuring really fast response times .
Experimental Results Experimental results were carried out using the Xerox corpus ( Barrachina et al. , 2009 ) , which consists of translation of Xerox printer manual involving three different language pairs : French - English , Spanish -English , and German-English .
This corpus has been extensively used in the literature to report IMT results .
The corpus consists of approximately 50,000 sentences pairs for training , 1,000 for development , and 1,000 for test .
The evaluation criteria used in the experiments are the key-stroke and mouse-action ratio ( KSMR ) metric ( Barrachina et al. , 2009 ) , which measures the user effort required to generate error-free translations , and the well - known BLEU score , which constitutes a measure of the translation quality .
The test corpora were interactively translated from English to the other three languages , comparing the performance of a batch IMT ( baseline ) and the online IMT systems .
The batch IMT system is a conventional IMT system which is not able to take advantage of user feedback after each translation is performed .
The online IMT system uses the translations validated by the user to adapt the translation models at runtime .
Both systems were initialized with a log-linear model trained in batch mode using the training corpus .
Table 1 shows the BLEU score and the KSMR for the batch and the online IMT systems ( 95 % confidence intervals are shown ) .
The BLEU score was calculated from the first translation hypothesis produced by the IMT system for each source sentence .
All the obtained improvements with the online IMT system were statistically significant .
The average online training time for each new sample presented to the system , and the average response time for each user interaction ( that is , time that the system uses to propose new extensions for corrected prefixes ) are also shown in Table 1 , which are less than a tenth of a second and around two tenths of a second respectively 1 . According to the reported response and online training times , we can argue that the system proposed here is able to be used on real time scenarios .
It is worth mentioning that the results presented here significantly improve those presented in ( Barrachina et al. , 2009 ) for other state - of - the - art IMT systems using the same corpora .
Conclusions
We have described an IMT system with online learning which is able to learn from user feedback in real time .
As far as we know , to our knowledge , this feature have never been provided by previously presented IMT prototypes .
The proposed IMT tool is publicly available through the Web ( http://cat.iti.upv.es/ imt/ ) .
Currently , the system can be used to interactively translate the well - known Europarl corpus .
We have also carried out experiments with simulated users .
According to such experiments , our IMT system is able to outperform the results obtained by conventional IMT systems implementing batch learning .
Future work includes researching further on the benefits provided by our online learning techniques with experiments involving real users .
Figure 2 : 2 Figure 2 : IMT system architecture .
Figure 3 : 3 Figure 3 : Demo interface .
The source text segments are automatically extracted from source document .
Such segments are marked as pending ( light blue ) , validated ( dark green ) , partially translated ( light green ) , and locked ( light red ) .
The translation engine can work either at full-word or character level .
( a) Source document example , created from EuroParl corpus .
( b) Translated example document , preserving original format and highlighting non-translated sentences .
Figure 4 : 4 Figure 4 : Translating documents with the proposed system .
Table 1 : 1 BLEU and KSMR results for the XEROX test corpora using the batch and the online IMT systems , reporting the average online learning ( LT ) and the interaction response times ( RP ) in seconds .
System BLEU KSMR LT / RT ( s ) En - Sp batch online 55.1 ? 2.3 18.2 ? 1.1 60.6 ? 2.3 15.8 ?
1.0 0.04 /0.09 -/0.09
En- Fr batch online 33.7 ? 2.0 33.9 ?
1.3 42.2 ? 2.2 27.9 ?
1.3 0.09 /0.14 -/0.14 En- Ge batch online 20.4 ?
1.8 40.3 ?
1.2 28.0 ? 2.0 35.0 ?
1.3 0.07 /0.15 -/0.15
