title
Demonstration of a Neural Machine Translation System with Online Learning for Translators
abstract
We introduce a demonstration of our system , which implements online learning for neural machine translation in a production environment .
These techniques allow the system to continuously learn from the corrections provided by the translators .
We implemented an end-to- end platform integrating our machine translation servers to one of the most common user interfaces for professional translators : SDL Trados Studio .
Our objective was to save post-editing effort as the machine is continuously learning from human choices and adapting the models to a specific domain or user style .
Introduction Productivity is crucial in the translation industry .
Nowadays , translation companies must be more competitive than ever and meet fast commercial demands .
Thus , they need to produce high quality translations in shorter periods of time .
Machine translation ( MT ) can help them to achieve this goal : instead of a linguist thinking out or " creating " translations from scratch , " humanizing " automatic translations has become a common process in the industry .
This is known as post-editing ( PE ) and it has been shown to be effective in many cases ( Arenas , 2008 ; Hu and Cadwell , 2016 ) .
As MT systems are continuously improving their capabilities ( e.g. Hassan et al. , 2018 ; Wu et al. , 2016 ) , this workflow has become of major relevance in the translation industry .
Nonetheless , MT technology is still far from perfect ( Dale , 2016 ; Koehn and Knowles , 2017 ) , and there is still room for improvement .
Inherently to the PE process , new bilingual data is continuously generated ( the post-edited samples ) .
This data is typically used for the creation of domain-specific corpora , useful for adapting systems from a broader domain into a specific do-main , client or style .
The online learning ( OL ) paradigm aims to perform this adaptation during the PE process : each time the user validates a post-edited translation , the system is updated as this data is taken into account .
Therefore , when the next translation is produced , the system will consider the previous post-editions .
It is assumed that better translations ( or translations more suited to the human post-editor preferences ) will be produced .
The OL paradigm has quickly attracted the attention of researchers and industry .
The Cas-MaCat ( Alabau et al. , 2013 ) and MateCat ( Federico et al. , 2014 ) projects - where phrase - based statistical MT systems were adapted incrementally from the user post-edits - achieved many advances in this direction .
More recently , OL techniques were also applied to neural machine translation ( NMT ) systems ( Peris et al. , 2017 ; Turchi et al. , 2017 ; Kothur et al. , 2018 ; Wuebker et al. , 2018 ; Peris and Casacuberta , 2018 ) .
In this paper , we introduce a demo system of our in- house OL framework , in which we integrated our translation servers with the translators user-friendly interface SDL Trados Studio .
The rest of this document is structured as follows : Section 2 introduces the online learning paradigm .
Next , in Section 3 , we describe in detail our in-house architecture in which this paradigm is implemented .
Finally , Section 4 summarizes the demo system .
Adapting a NMT system via online learning
We are interested in benefiting from the post-edits generated by the user during the PE process .
To that end , we update the system on - the-fly , i.e , as soon as a sentence has been validated by the posteditor .
Right after the user confirms a post-edit , we update the models of our NMT system , using the source sentence and the post-edit as a training pair .
This adaptation can be done following gradient descent , the regular training method for neural networks .
Architecture
Our in- house architecture of the OL framework is composed of three main modules : the MT engine , the user interface and the translation server which links both .
Moreover , we added a logging option to keep user tracking information as keystrokes , time and mouse movements .
Fig. 1 illustrates this architecture .
The translation process consists of delivering machine translations to the user interface and the training process retrains the MT engine with the feedback provided by the user .
Both processes are performed through client-server communication .
Next , we describe each module in detail .
Machine Translation Engine
The core of the MT engine is composed by the models generating translations , which can be retrained when required .
Each translation project has its own model , whose architecture is set according to the project 's need .
All models are neural - based and are trained using OpenNMT - py ( Klein et al. , 2017 ) .
Each MT model has its own configuration file , which contains personalized translation and OL options , such as tokenization , subword segmentation , learning rate , etc .
Translation Server
A translation server communicates with the MT models in order to generate translations and adapt the systems based on the user 's post editions .
This server is based on OpenNMT - py's REST server and uses the HTTP protocol to define the messages in order to serve user 's requests .
The code of our translation server is open and available 1 .
We created a branch in OpenNMT - py that features this server and is compatible with all its different models .
The communication between the user interface and the MT engine is performed by means of GET and POST requests .
The server waits for translation requests .
When received , these requests are sent to the machine translation engine in a JSON format .
When a machine translation segment is corrected by the user , the correction is sent to the translation engine .
User Interface
In the translation industry , the most common user interface for translators is SDL Trados Studio 2 . Fig. 2 shows the user interface .
The user gets the machine translation outputs automatically when the target part of the segment in the interface is clicked .
Then , the user post-edits the segment and , when the translation is corrected , confirms it .
SDL allows the development of plugins for Trados Studio to enhance and extend the tool .
Moreover , it has a large developer community 3 helping the software with add -ons and apps .
We incorporated our adaptive framework as a Trados Studio plugin , that connected the user interface with Trados Studio with our translation server .
As the user confirms a post-edit , the reviewed segment is sent back to the MT engine to be retrained with this new information .
In order to set up this plugin , the user fills the credentials with a username , password and URL pointing to the server ( see Fig. 3
Logging
In order to measure the productivity and effectiveness of OL during the PE process , we integrated tools to log the time , keystrokes and mouse movements involved in post-editing a given file .
To achieve this , we incorporated the Qualitivity 4 plugin for Trados .
This plugin generates an XML logging file , which contains all the keystrokes time information per segment .
An example of this logging is shown in Figure 4 .
With all this log information , we can measure the effort required to post- edit a file using MT with OL .
Preliminary experiments in simulated and real environments with professional translators ( Domingo et al. , 2019 ) , reported significant improvements of the quality of the translations generated by the MT systems ( up to 5.3 points according to hTER , and 7.8 points according to hBLEU ) , and a significant reduction of the PE time ( up to 7.5 second per sentence ) .
Summary
We have introduced a demonstration of Pangeanic 's translation framework , which incorporates on - the -fly system adaptation via online learning .
This paradigm allows human translators / post-editors to produce more human-quality text , that is , be more productive - a fundamental issue in the translation industry - since the system is continuously learning from the user post-edits , avoiding repetition of the same errors .
We have integrated our MT servers into the SDL Trados Studio user interface which is one of the most used in the translation industry .
This system aims to improve human translators ' work by saving Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Architecture of our in- house OL framework .
Red arrows represent how the correction made by the user arrives to the Machine Translation engine to be retrained .
Blue arrows represent how machine translation is delivered to the user .
top left box ) .
Also , the user fills the required languages and clicks in the " use machine translation " option ( see Fig.
3 top right box ) .
Finally , all the options
Figure 2 : 2 Figure 2 : User Interface from Trados Studio SDL .
Figure 3 : 3 Figure 3 : Machine translation plugin configuration .
Figure 4 : 4 Figure 4 : Example of Qualitivity 's logging file .
https://github.com/midobal/ OpenNMT-py/tree/OnlineLearning 2 https://www.sdl.com/ es/software-and-services / translation-software/sdl-trados-studio / 3 https://community.sdl.com/ developers-more / developers / language-developers
https://community.sdl.com/ product-groups/translationproductivity / w/customer-experience/2251.qualitivity
