title
Map Translation Using Geo-tagged Social Media
abstract
This paper discusses the problem of map translation , of servicing spatial entities in multiple languages .
Existing work on entity translation harvests translation evidence from text resources , not considering spatial locality in translation .
In contrast , we mine geo-tagged sources for multilingual tags to improve recall , and consider spatial properties of tags for translation to improve precision .
Our approach empirically improves accuracy from 0.562 to 0.746 using Taiwanese spatial entities .
Introduction
A map is becoming an essential online service for mobile devices , providing a current location and generating directions to spatial entities ( SEs ) .
Although major map services aim to support a map in more than 100 local languages , their current support is often biased either to English or local maps .
For example , Figure 1 contrasts richly populated Taiwanese entities ( in the local language ) whereas only some of those entities are translated in English version .
Our goal is to translate richly populated SEs into another language , in the finer granularity such as restaurants .
A baseline approach would be adopting existing work on entity transliteration work , which uses phonetic similarity , such as translating ' Barack Obama ' into ' ?
? ? ? ?' [ Beilake?
Aobama ] .
Another approach is using automatically - harvested or manually - built translation resources , such as multilingual Gazetteer ( or , SE dictionary 1 ) .
However , these resources are often limited to well - known or large SEs , which leads to translation with near-perfect precision but low recall .
Moreover , blindly applying existing entity translation methods to SE translation leads to extremely low accuracy .
For example , an SE '? ? ? ?' should be translated into ' Shifen station ' , where '? ?' is transliterated to [ Shifen ] , whereas '? ?' is semantically translated based on its meaning ' station ' .
However , due to this complex nature often observed in SE translation , an off-the-shelf translation service ( e.g. , Google Translate ) returns ' very station ' 2 as an output .
In addition , SE names are frequently abbreviated so that we cannot infer the meanings to semantically translate them .
For instance , ' United Nations ' is often abbreviated into ' UN ' and its translation is also often abbreviated .
As a result , the abbreviation in the two languages , ( UN , ? ) , shares neither phonetic nor semantic similarity .
To overcome these limitations , we propose to extract and leverage properties of SEs from a social media , namely Flickr .
Especially , we exploit co-occurrence of names in two different languages .
For example , ' ? ' co-occurs with its English translation ' Taipei ' as tags on the same photo .
This is strong evidence that they are translations of each other .
In addition to co-occurrence , we leverage spatial properties of SEs .
For example , among tags that frequently co-occur with ' ? ' , such as ' Taipei ' and ' Canon ' , ' Taipei ' is Table 1 : Overview of symbols more likely to be its correct translation because the spatial distributions of the two tags are similarly skewed in the same area .
Our approach significantly improves the F1-score ( 0.562 to 0.746 ) , compared to an off-the-shelf translators .
Overall Framework
We provide the framework of our proposed method using predefined symbols ( Table 1 ) .
We consider a scenario of translating each SE c in a set of all SEs C in a Chinese map into English so that we obtain an English map 3 . STEP 1 .
Finding a set D c : We crawl a photo set D with tags from Flickr .
We consider each of the tags as an entity .
Given an SE c ?
C , we find a set D c ?
D. For each photo in D c , we obtain a set of tags in multiple languages and GPS coordinates of the photo as translation evidence ( Table 2 ) .
STEP 2 . Collecting candidate English tags :
To obtain translation candidates of c , we build a set E c of English tags that co-occur with c , and a set D e ?
D of photos for each e ?
E c . CF ( c , e ) = | D c ? D e | , ( 1 ) where D c and D e are photos with a Chinese SE c and an English tag e , respectively .
We compute CF ( c , e ) for all candidates in e ?
E c and rank them .
Then , FB translates c into e with the highest CF ( c , e ) score .
However , FB cannot address the following two challenges that occur due to tag sparseness .
? C1 : Large regions such as ' Taiwan ' , ' Taipei ' ( Section 3.2 ) ? C2 : Non-SEs such as ' dog ' , ' food ' ( Section 3.3 ) 3.2 Overcoming C1 : Scarcity - biased Translation ( SB )
Users tend to tag photos with both a specific SE and large administrative regions such as ' Taiwan ' and ' Taipei ' , which makes FB score of large regions higher than the proper one .
For example , ' Taipei ' is tagged in most photos in D ( Table 2 ) ; therefore , CF ( ? , Taipei ) larger than CF ( ? , The Queen's Head ) ( Table 3 ) .
To reduce the effect of large regions , we introduce a new feature to give high scores for specific SEs ( e.g. , ' The Queen 's Head ' ) .
We observe that a large region 's tag is associated with many photos in D ?
D c , whereas a scarce but useful tag is particularly tagged in D c .
We consider | De| | D?Dc | to measure how many photos have e without c .
Therefore , | De| | D?Dc | increases as e frequently appears where c does not .
In contrast , if e appears mostly with c , the ratio decreases .
Taking inverse of the ratio to give higher score when e appears mostly with c , we define tag scarcity T S(c , e ) and apply it to the candidate ranking function .
To illustrate the effect of SB with our running example ( Table 2 ) , we compare ' The Queen 's Head ' to ' Taipei ' for translating '? ? ?' ( Table 3 ) .
FB gives a higher score to ' Taipei ' than to the correct translation ' The Queen 's Head ' .
In contrast , by reflecting T S , SB correctly concludes that ' The Queen 's Head ' is the best match .
Apart from SB , we can also leverage an additional resource such as an administrative hierarchy , if exists , to blacklist some large regions ' names from E c .
By first translating larger regions and excluding them , the precision for translating small SEs can increase .
For instance , we translate a country ' ?
( Taiwan ) ' earlier than a city ' ? ( Taipei ) ' .
Then , when translating '? ? ' , even though CF ( ? , Taiwan ) is higher than CF ( ? , Taipei ) , we ignore ' Taiwan ' in E ? because it is already matched with ' ?'.
Overcoming C2 : Pruning Non-SEs ( PN )
We prune non -SEs such as ' food ' based on spatial locality of a tag .
We observe that the GPS coordinates G e of photos with an SE tag e tend to be more concentrated in a specific region than those of photos with a non-SE .
For instance , comparing a non-SE ' food ' and an SE ' The Queen 's Head ' , the GPS coordinates in G food are more widespread all over Taiwan than those in G The Queen 's Head .
We leverage the coordinates of a distant SE pair .
For example , two spatially far SEs ' ? ( Taipei ) ' and ' ?
( Taitung ) ' compose a distant SE pair .
Because both SEs are unlikely to be tagged in a single photo , an English tag that cooccurs with both of them would be a non-SE .
Formally , we define two Chinese SEs c 1 and c 2 as a distant SE pair if G c 1 ? G c 2 = ? , and M as a set of all distant SE pairs among C ? C .
We judge that an English tag e is a non -SE if G e intersects with both G c 1 and G c 2 for a distant pair c 1 and c 2 . Formally , an English tag e is non -SE if the following equation P N ( e ) is nonzero .
P N ( e ) = ? ( c 1 , c 2 ) ?M
| Gc 1 ? Ge| ? | Gc 2 ? Ge |. ( 4 ) 4 Evaluation
Experimental Setting Photo Data and Ground Truth :
We crawled 227,669 photos taken in Taipei from Flickr , which also provided GPS coordinates of photos .
We took a set D of 148,141 photos containing both Chinese and English tags and manually labelled 200 gold standard Chinese - English SE pairs whose names appeared together in at least one photo in D. Administrative Hierarchy :
An administrative hierarchy was obtained from Taiwan Geographical Names Information System 4 . Baselines :
We chose baselines available for many languages except for the gazetteer and excluded methods that used specific textual corpora .
? Phonetic Similarity ( PH ) ( Kim et al. , 2013 ) ?
Off-the-shelf Translator : Google Translate 5 , Bing Translator 6
Experimental Results Comparison to Baselines :
The proposed approach ( SB + PN ) with or without the administrative hierarchy provided higher R and F1 than did the baseline methods ( Table 5 , 6 ) .
The baseline methods showed generally low P , R , and F1 .
Especially , the gazetteer produced high precision , but poor recall because it could not translate lesser-known SEs such as ' ?
( To House ) ' and ' ?
( Denwell Restaurant ) ' ( Table 4 ) .
Effect of SB and PN : We experimented on the effect of the combinations of the features ( Table 6 ) .
Using all the features FB +SB + PN with hierarchy , which translated the upper level of the hierarchy with FB and the lower level with SB , showed the best effectiveness .
Simple FB gave both low precision and very low recall regardless of whether we used the hierarchy .
Replacing FB with SB yielded both higher F1 and higher MRR .
PN
Conclusion
We propose a scalable map translator that uses a geo-tagged corpus from social media to mine translation evidence to translate between English and maps in local languages .
Our approach leverages both co-occurrence of the SE tags in Chinese and English and their scarcity and spatial property .
Our approach can translate small or emerging spatial entities such as restaurants , which major map services cannot support currently .
We empirically validated that our approach provided higher P , R , F1 , and MRR than the existing methods including popular off -the-shelf translation services .
2 As of Dec 26 , 2013 .
