title
Enhancing Language Models in Statistical Machine Translation with Backward N-grams and Mutual Information Triggers
abstract
In this paper , with a belief that a language model that embraces a larger context provides better prediction ability , we present two extensions to standard n-gram language models in statistical machine translation : a backward language model that augments the conventional forward language model , and a mutual information trigger model which captures long-distance dependencies that go beyond the scope of standard n-gram language models .
We integrate the two proposed models into phrase - based statistical machine translation and conduct experiments on large-scale training data to investigate their effectiveness .
Our experimental results show that both models are able to significantly improve translation quality and collectively achieve up to 1 BLEU point over a competitive baseline .
Introduction Language model is one of the most important knowledge sources for statistical machine translation ( SMT ) ( Brown et al. , 1993 ) .
The standard n-gram language model ( Goodman , 2001 ) assigns probabilities to hypotheses in the target language conditioning on a context history of the preceding n ?
1 words .
Along with the efforts that advance translation models from word - based paradigm to syntax - based philosophy , in recent years we have also witnessed increasing efforts dedicated to extend standard n-gram language models for SMT .
We roughly categorize these efforts into two directions : data-volume-oriented and data- depth-oriented .
In the first direction , more data is better .
In order to benefit from monolingual corpora ( LDC news data or news data collected from web pages ) that consist of billions or even trillions of English words , huge language models are built in a distributed manner ( Zhang et al. , 2006 ; Brants et al. , 2007 ) .
Such language models yield better translation results but at the cost of huge storage and high computation .
The second direction digs deeply into monolingual data to build linguistically - informed language models .
For example , Charniak et al. ( 2003 ) present a syntax - based language model for machine translation which is trained on syntactic parse trees .
Again , Shen et al . ( 2008 ) explore a dependency language model to improve translation quality .
To some extent , these syntactically - informed language models are consistent with syntax - based translation models in capturing long-distance dependencies .
In this paper , we pursue the second direction without resorting to any linguistic resources such as a syntactic parser .
With a belief that a language model that embraces a larger context provides better prediction ability , we learn additional information from training data to enhance conventional n-gram language models and extend their ability to capture richer contexts and long-distance dependencies .
In particular , we integrate backward n-grams and mutual information ( MI ) triggers into language models in SMT .
In conventional n-gram language models , we look at the preceding n ?
1 words when calculating the probability of the current word .
We henceforth call the previous n ?
1 words plus the current word as forward n-grams and a language model built on forward n-grams as forward n-gram language model .
Similarly , backward n-grams refer to the succeeding n ?
1 words plus the current word .
We train a backward n-gram language model on backward n-grams and integrate the forward and backward language models together into the decoder .
In doing so , we attempt to capture both the preceding and succeeding contexts of the current word .
Different from the backward n-gram language model , the MI trigger model still looks at previous contexts , which however go beyond the scope of forward n-grams .
If the current word is indexed as w i , the farthest word that the forward n-gram includes is w i ? n+ 1 .
However , the MI triggers are capable of detecting dependencies between w i and words from w 1 to w i?n .
By these triggers ( { w k ? w i } , 1 ? k ? i ? n ) , we can capture long-distance dependencies that are outside the scope of forward n-grams .
We integrate the proposed backward language model and the MI trigger model into a state- ofthe - art phrase - based SMT system .
We evaluate the effectiveness of both models on Chinese-to - English translation tasks with large-scale training data .
Compared with the baseline which only uses the forward language model , our experimental results show that the additional backward language model is able to gain about 0.5 BLEU points , while the MI trigger model gains about 0.4 BLEU points .
When both models are integrated into the decoder , they collectively improve the performance by up to 1 BLEU point .
The paper is structured as follows .
In Section 2 , we will briefly introduce related work and show how our models differ from previous work .
Section 3 and 4 will elaborate the backward language model and the MI trigger model respectively in more detail , describe the training procedures and explain how the models are integrated into the phrase - based decoder .
Section 5 will empirically evaluate the effectiveness of these two models .
Section 6 will conduct an indepth analysis .
In the end , we conclude in Section 7 .
Related Work Previous work devoted to improving language models in SMT mostly focus on two categories as we mentioned before 1 : large language models ( Zhang et al. , 2006 ; Emami et al. , 2007 ; Brants et al. , 2007 ; Talbot and Osborne , 2007 ) and syntax - based language models ( Charniak et al. , 2003 ; Shen et al. , 2008 ; Post and Gildea , 2008 ) .
Since our philosophy is fundamentally different from them in that we build contextually - informed language models by using backward n-grams and MI triggers , we discuss previous work that explore these two techniques ( backward n-grams and MI triggers ) in this section .
Since the context " history " in the backward language model ( BLM ) is actually the future words to be generated , BLM is normally used in a postprocessing where all words have already been generated or in a scenario where sentences are proceeded from the ending to the beginning .
Duchateau et al. ( 2002 ) use the BLM score as a confidence measure to detect wrongly recognized words in speech recognition .
Finch and Sumita ( 2009 ) use the BLM in their reverse translation decoder where source sentences are proceeded from the ending to the beginning .
Our BLM is different from theirs in that we access the BLM during decoding ( rather than after decoding ) where source sentences are still proceeded from the beginning to the ending .
Rosenfeld et al. ( 1994 ) introduce trigger pairs into a maximum entropy based language model as features .
The trigger pairs are selected according to their mutual information .
Zhou ( 2004 ) also propose an enhanced language model ( MI - Ngram ) which consists of a standard forward n-gram language model and an MI trigger model .
The latter model measures the mutual information of distancedependent trigger pairs .
Our MI trigger model is mostly inspired by the work of these two papers , especially by Zhou 's MI - Ngram model ( 2004 ) .
The difference is that our model is distance - independent and , of course , we are interested in an SMT problem rather than a speech recognition one .
Raybaud et al. ( 2009 ) use MI triggers in their confidence measures to assess the quality of translation results after decoding .
Our method is different from theirs in the MI calculation and trigger pair selection .
Mauser et al. ( 2009 ) propose bilingual triggers where two source words trigger one target word to improve lexical choice of target words .
Our analysis ( Section 6 ) show that our monolingual triggers can also help in the selection of target words .
Backward Language Model Given a sequence of words w m 1 = ( w 1 ...w m ) , a standard forward n-gram language model assigns a probability P f ( w m 1 ) to w m 1 as follows .
P f ( w m 1 ) = m ? i=1 P ( w i |w i?1 1 ) ? m ? i=1 P ( w i |w i?1 i? n+1 ) ( 1 ) where the approximation is based on the nth order Markov assumption .
In other words , when we predict the current word w i , we only consider the preceding n ?
1 words w i? n+1 ...w i?1 instead of the whole context history w 1 ...w i?1 . Different from the forward n-gram language model , the backward n-gram language model assigns a probability P b ( w m 1 ) to w m 1 by looking at the succeeding context according to P b ( w m 1 ) = m ?
i=1 P ( w i |w m i + 1 ) ? m ? i=1 P ( w i |w i +n?1 i +1 ) ( 2 )
Training
For the convenience of training , we invert the order in each sentence in the training data , i.e. , from the original order ( w 1 ...w m ) to the reverse order ( w m ...w 1 ) .
In this way , we can use the same toolkit that we use to train a forward n-gram language model to train a backward n-gram language model without any other changes .
To be consistent with training , we also need to reverse the order of translation hypotheses when we access the trained backward language model 2 . Note that the Markov context history of Eq. ( 2 ) is w i + n?1 ...w i+ 1 instead of w i + 1 ...w i+ n?1 after we invert the order .
The words are the same but the order is completely reversed .
Decoding
In this section , we will present two algorithms to integrate the backward n-gram language model into two kinds of phrase - based decoders respectively : 1 ) a CKY - style decoder that adopts bracketing transduction grammar ( BTG ) ( Wu , 1997 ; Xiong et al. , 2006 ) and 2 ) a standard phrase - based decoder ( Koehn et al. , 2003 ) .
Both decoders translate source sentences from the beginning of a sentence to the ending .
Wu ( 1996 ) introduce a dynamic programming algorithm to integrate a forward bigram language model with inversion transduction grammar .
His algorithm is then adapted and extended for integrating forward n-gram language models into synchronous CFGs by Chiang ( 2007 ) .
Our algorithms are different from theirs in two major aspects 1 .
The string input to the algorithms is in a reverse order .
2 . We adopt a different way to calculate language model probabilities for partial hypotheses so that we can utilize incomplete n-grams .
Before we introduce the integration algorithms , we define three functions P , L , and R on strings ( in a reverse order ) over the English terminal alphabet T .
The function P is defined as follows .
P( w k ...w 1 ) = P ( w k ) ... P ( w k?n+2 |w k ...w k?n+3 ) a ? ? 1?i?k?n+1 P ( w i |w i+ n?1 ...w i + 1 ) b ( 3 )
This function consists of two parts : ?
The first part ( a ) calculates incomplete n-gram language model probabilities for word w k to w k?n+ 2 .
That means , we calculate the unigram probability for w k ( P ( w k ) ) , bigram probability for w k?1 ( P ( w k?1 | w k ) ) and so on until we take n ?
1 - gram probability for w k?n+ 2 ( P ( w k?n+2 |w k ...w k?n+3 ) ) .
This resembles the way in which the forward language model probability in the future cost is computed in the standard phrase - based SMT ( Koehn et al. , 2003 ) . ?
The second part ( b ) calculates complete ngram backward language model probabilities for word w k?n+ 1 to w 1 .
The function is different from Chiang 's p function in that his function p only calculates language model probabilities for the complete n-grams .
Since we calculate backward language model probabilities during a beginning - to-ending ( left- to- right ) decoding process , the succeeding context for the current word is either yet to be generated or incomplete in terms of n-grams .
The P function enables us to utilize incomplete succeeding contexts to approximately predict words .
Once the succeeding contexts are complete , we can quickly update language model probabilities in an efficient way in our algorithms .
The other two functions L and R are defined as follows L( w k ...w
1 ) = { w k ...w k?n+ 2 , if k ?
n w k ...w 1 , otherwise ( 4 ) R( w k ...w 1 ) = { w n?1 ...w 1 , if k ?
n w k ...w 1 , otherwise ( 5 ) The L and R function return the leftmost and rightmost n ?
1 words from a string in a reverse order respectively .
Following Chiang ( 2007 ) , we describe our algorithms in a deductive system .
We firstly show the algorithm 3 that integrates the backward language model into a BTG - style decoder ( Xiong et al. , 2006 ) in Figure 1 . The item [ A , i , j ; l |r ] indicates that a BTG node A has been constructed spanning from i to j on the source side with the leftmost | rightmost n ?
1 words l|r on the target side .
As mentioned before , all target strings assessed by the defined functions ( P , L , and R ) are in an inverted order ( denoted by e ) .
We only display the backward language model probability for each item , ignoring all other scores such as phrase translation probabilities .
The Eq. ( 8 ) in Figure 1 shows how we calculate the backward language model probability for the axiom which applies a BTG lexicon rule to translate a source phrase c into a target phrase e. The Eq. ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) show how we update the backward language model probabilities for two inference rules which combine two neighboring blocks in a straight and inverted order respectively .
The fundamental theories behind this update are P(e 1 e 2 ) = P( e 1 ) P( e 2 ) P ( R( e 2 ) L( e 1 ) ) P ( R( e 2 ) ) P ( L( e 1 ) ) ( 6 ) Function Value e 1 a 1 a 2 a 3 e 2 b 1 b 2 b 3 R( e 2 ) b 2 b 1 L(e 1 ) a 3 a 2 P ( R ( e 2 ) ) P ( b 2 ) P ( b 1 | b 2 ) P ( L( e 1 ) ) P ( a 3 ) P ( a 2 | a 3 ) P(e 1 ) P ( a 3 ) P ( a 2 | a 3 ) P ( a 1 | a 3 a 2 ) P ( e P(e 2 e 1 ) = P( e 1 ) P( e 2 ) P ( R( e 1 ) L( e 2 ) ) P ( R( e 1 ) ) P ( L ( e 2 ) )
Whenever two strings e 1 and e 2 are concatenated in a straight or inverted order , we can reuse their P values ( P( e 1 ) and P( e 2 ) ) in terms of dynamic programming .
Only the probabilities of boundary words ( e.g. , R ( e 2 ) L( e 1 ) in Eq. ( 6 ) ) need to be recalculated since they have complete n-grams after the concatenation .
Table 1 shows values of P , L , and R in a 3 - gram example which helps to verify Eq. ( 6 ) .
These two equations guarantee that our algorithm can correctly compute the backward language model probability of a sentence stepwise in a dynamic programming framework .
4
The theoretical time complexity of this algorithm is O (m 3 | T | 4 ( n?1 ) ) because in the update parts in Eq. ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) both the numerator and denominator have up to 2 ( n ? 1 ) terminal symbols .
This is the same as the time complexity of Chiang 's language model integration ( Chiang , 2007 ) .
Figure 2 shows the algorithm that integrates the backward language model into a standard phrasebased SMT ( Koehn et al. , 2003 ) .
V denotes a coverage vector which records source words translated so far .
The Eq. ( 11 ) shows how we update the backward language model probability for a partial hypothesis when it is extended into a longer hypothesis by a target phrase translating an uncovered source A ? c /e [ A , i , j ; L ( e ) |R ( e ) ] : P( e ) ( 8 ) A ? [ A 1 , A 2 ] [ A 1 , i , k ; L(e 1 ) | R( e 1 ) ] : P( e 1 ) [ A 2 , k + 1 , j ; L( e 2 ) | R( e 2 ) ] : P( e 2 ) [ A , i , j ; L(e 1 e 2 ) | R( e 1 e 2 ) ] : P( e 1 ) P( e 2 ) P ( R( e 2 ) L( e 1 ) ) P ( R( e 2 ) ) P ( L( e 1 ) ) ( 9 ) A ? ?A 1 , A 2 ? [ A 1 , i , k ; L(e 1 ) | R( e 1 ) ] : P( e 1 ) [ A 2 , k + 1 , j ; L( e 2 ) | R( e 2 ) ] : P( e 2 ) [ A , i , j ; L(e 2 e 1 ) | R( e 2 e 1 ) ] : P( e 1 ) P( e 2 ) P ( R( e 1 ) L( e 2 ) ) P ( R( e 1 ) ) P ( L( e 2 ) ) ( 10 ) Figure 1 : Integrating the backward language model into a BTG -style decoder . [ V ; L(e 1 ) ] : P( e 1 ) c/e 2 : P( e 2 ) [ V ? ; L(e 1 e 2 ) ] : P( e 1 ) P( e 2 ) P ( R( e 2 ) L( e 1 ) ) segment .
This extension on the target side is similar to the monotone combination of Eq. ( 9 ) in that a newly translated phrase is concatenated to an early translated sequence .
P ( R( e 2 ) ) P ( L( e 1 ) ) ( 11 )
MI Trigger Model
It is well - known that long-distance dependencies between words are very important for statistical language modeling .
However , n-gram language models can only capture short-distance dependencies within an n-word window .
In order to model long-distance dependencies , previous work such as ( Rosenfeld et al. , 1994 ) and ( Zhou , 2004 ) exploit trigger pairs .
A trigger pair is defined as an ordered 2 - tuple ( x , y ) where word x occurs in the preceding context of word y .
It can also be denoted in a more visual manner as x ? y with x being the trigger and y the triggered word 5 .
We use pointwise mutual information ( PMI ) ( Church and Hanks , 1990 ) to measure the strength of the association between x and y , which is defined as follows P M I ( x , y ) = log ( P ( x , y ) P ( x ) P ( y ) ) ( 12 ) Zhou ( 2004 ) proposes a new language model enhanced with MI trigger pairs .
In his model , the probability of a given sentence w m 1 is approximated as P ( w m 1 ) ?( m ? i=1 P ( w i |w i?1 i? n+1 ) ) ? m ? i= n+1 i?n ? k=1 exp ( P M I ( w k , w i , i ? k ? 1 ) ) ( 13 )
There are two components in his model .
The first component is still the standard n-gram language model .
The second one is the MI trigger model which multiples all exponential PMI values for trigger pairs where the current word is the triggered word and all preceding words outside the n-gram window of the current word are triggers .
Note that his MI trigger model is distance - dependent since trigger pairs ( w k , w i ) are sensitive to their distance i ? k ?
1 ( zero distance for adjacent words ) .
Therefore the distance between word x and word y should be taken into account when calculating their PMI .
In this paper , for simplicity , we adopt a distanceindependent MI trigger model as follows M I ( w m 1 ) = m ? i= n+1 i?n ? k=1 exp ( P M I ( w k , w i ) ) ( 14 )
We integrate the MI trigger model into the loglinear model of machine translation as an additional knowledge source which complements the standard n-gram language model in capturing long-distance dependencies .
By MERT ( Och , 2003 ) , we are even able to tune the weight of the MI trigger model against the weight of the standard n-gram language model while Zhou ( 2004 ) sets equal weights for both models .
Training
We can use the maximum likelihood estimation method to calculate PMI for each trigger pair by taking counts from training data .
Let C( x , y ) be the co-occurrence count of the trigger pair ( x , y ) in the training data .
The joint probability of ( x , y ) is calculated as P ( x , y ) = C( x , y ) ? x,y C ( x , y ) ( 15 )
The marginal probabilities of x and y can be deduced from the joint probability as follows P ( x ) = ? y P ( x , y ) ( 16 ) P ( y ) = ? x P ( x , y ) ( 17 )
Since the number of distinct trigger pairs is O ( |T | 2 ) , the question is how to select valuable trigger pairs .
We select trigger pairs according to the following three steps 1 .
The distance between x and y must not be less than n ?
1 . Suppose we use a 5 - gram language model and y = w i , then x ? {w 1 ...w i?5 }.
C ( x , y ) > c.
In all our experiments we set c = 10 .
3 . Finally , we only keep trigger pairs whose PMI value is larger than 0 .
Trigger pairs whose PMI value is less than 0 often contain stop words , such as " the " , " a " .
These stop words have very large marginal probabilities due to their high frequencies .
Decoding
The MI trigger model of Eq. ( 14 ) can be directly integrated into the decoder .
For the standard phrasebased decoder ( Koehn et al. , 2003 ) , whenever a partial hypothesis is extended by a new target phrase , we can quickly retrieve the pre-computed PMI value for each trigger pair where the triggered word locates in the newly translated target phrase and the trigger is outside the n-word window of the triggered word .
where M I(e 1 ? e 2 ) represents the PMI values in which a word in e 1 triggers a word in e 2 .
It is defined as follows M I(e 1 ? e 2 ) = ? wi?e2 ? w k ?e1 i?k?n exp ( P M I ( w k , w i ) ) ( 19 ) 5 Experiments
In this section , we conduct large-scale experiments on NIST Chinese - to - English translation tasks to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed backward language model and MI trigger model in SMT .
Our experiments focus on the following two issues : 1 . How much improvements can we achieve by separately integrating the backward language model and the MI trigger model into our phrase - based SMT system ?
2 . Can we obtain a further improvement if we jointly apply both models ?
System Overview
Without loss of generality 6 , we evaluate our models in a phrase - based SMT system which adapts bracketing transduction grammars to phrasal translation ( Xiong et al. , 2006 ) .
The log-linear model of this system can be formulated as w ( D ) =M T ( r l 1..n l ) ? M R ( r m 1..nm ) ? R ? P f L ( e ) ? f L ? exp ( |e | ) ?w ( 20 ) where D denotes a derivation , r l 1..n l are the BTG lexicon rules which translate source phrases to target phrases , and r m 1.. nm are the merging rules which combine two neighboring blocks into a larger block in a straight or inverted order .
The translation model M T consists of widely used phrase and lexical translation probabilities ( Koehn et al. , 2003 ) .
The reordering model M R predicts the merging order ( straight or inverted ) by using discriminative contextual features ( Xiong et al. , 2006 ) .
P f L is the standard forward n-gram language model .
If we simultaneously integrate both the backward language model P bL and the MI trigger model M I into the system , the new log-linear model will be formulated as w ( D ) =M T ( r l 1..n l ) ? M R ( r m 1..nm ) ?R ? P f L ( e ) ? f L ? P bL ( e ) ? bL ? M I ( e ) ?MI ? exp ( |e | ) ?w ( 21 )
Experimental Setup
Our training corpora 7 consist of 96.9M Chinese words and 109.5 M English words in 3.8 M sentence pairs .
We used all corpora to train our translation model and smaller corpora without the United Nations corpus to build a maximum entropy based reordering model ( Xiong et al. , 2006 ) .
To train our language models and MI trigger model , we used the Xinhua section of the English Gigaword corpus ( 306 million words ) .
Firstly , we built a forward 5 - gram language model using the SRILM toolkit ( Stolcke , 2002 ) with modified Kneser - Ney smoothing .
Then we trained a backward 5 - gram language model on the same monolingual corpus in the way described in Section 3.1 .
Finally , we trained our MI trigger model still on this corpus according to the method in Section 4.1 .
The trained MI trigger model consists of 2.88 M trigger pairs .
We used the NIST MT03 evaluation test data as the development set , and the NIST MT04 , MT05 as the test sets .
We adopted the case-insensitive BLEU -4 ( Papineni et al. , 2002 ) as the evaluation metric , which uses the shortest reference sentence length for the brevity penalty .
Statistical significance in BLEU differences is tested by paired bootstrap re-sampling ( Koehn , 2004 ) .
Experimental Results
The experimental results on the two NIST test sets are shown in 2 : BLEU - 4 scores ( % ) on the two test sets for different language models and their combinations .
+ : better than the baseline ( p < 0.01 ) .
model , we obtain 0.49 and 0.56 BLEU points over the baseline on the MT -04 and MT -05 test set respectively .
Both improvements are statistically significant ( p < 0.01 ) .
The MI trigger model also achieves statistically significant improvements of 0.33 and 0.44 BLEU points over the baseline on the MT -04 and MT -05 respectively .
When we integrate both the backward language model and the MI trigger model into our system , we obtain improvements of 1.09 and 0.71 BLEU points over the single forward language model on the MT -04 and MT -05 respectively .
These improvements are larger than those achieved by using only one model ( the backward language model or the MI trigger model ) .
Analysis
In this section , we will study more details of the two models by looking at the differences that they make on translation hypotheses .
These differences will help us gain some insights into how the presented models improve translation quality .
Table 3 shows an example from our test set .
The italic words in the hypothesis generated by using the backward language model ( F+ B ) exactly match the reference .
However , the italic words in the baseline hypothesis fail to match the reference due to the incorrect position of the word " decree " ( ? ) .
We calculate the forward / backward language model score ( the logarithm of language model probability ) for the italic words in both the baseline and F+B hypothesis according to the trained language models .
The difference in the forward language model score is only 1.58 , which may be offset by differences in other features in the log-linear translation model .
On the other hand , the difference in the backward language model score is 3.52 .
This larger difference may guarantee that the hypothesis generated by F+B is better enough to be selected as the best hypothesis by the decoder .
This suggests that the backward language model is able to provide useful and discriminative information which is complementary to that given by the forward language model .
In Table 4 , we present another example to show how the MI trigger model improves translation quality .
The major difference in hypotheses of this example is the word choice between " is " and " was " .
The new system enhanced with the MI trigger model ( F + M ) selects the former while the baseline selects the latter .
The forward language model score for the baseline hypothesis is - 26.41 , which is higher than the score of the F+M hypothesis - 26.67 .
This could be the reason why the baseline selects the word " was " instead of " is " .
As can be seen , there is another " is " in the preceding context of the word " was " in the baseline hypothesis .
Unfortunately , this word " is " is located just outside the scope of the preceding 5 - gram context of " was " .
The forward 5 - gram language model is hence not able to take it into account when calculating the probability of " was " .
However , this is not a problem for the MI trigger model .
Since " is " and " was " rarely co-occur in the same sentence , the PMI value of the trigger pair ( is , was ) 8 is - 1.03
Source ? ? ? ? , ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? Baseline Self- Defense Force 's trip is remarkable , because it was not an isolated incident .
F+M Self- Defense Force 's trip is remarkable , because it is not an isolated incident .
Reference The Self- Defense Forces ' trip arouses attention because it is not an isolated incident .
while the PMI value of the trigger pair ( is , is ) is as high as 0.32 .
Therefore our MI trigger model selects " is " rather than " was " .
9
This example illustrates that the MI trigger model is capable of selecting correct words by using long-distance trigger pairs .
Conclusion
We have presented two models to enhance the ability of standard n-gram language models in capturing richer contexts and long-distance dependencies that go beyond the scope of forward n-gram windows .
The two models have been integrated into the decoder and have shown to improve a state- ofthe - art phrase - based SMT system .
The first model is the backward language model which uses backward n-grams to predict the current word .
We introduced algorithms that directly integrate the backward language model into a CKY -style and a standard phrase - based decoder respectively .
The second model is the MI trigger model that incorporates long-distance trigger pairs into language modeling .
Overall improvements are up to 1 BLEU point on the NIST Chinese- to - English translation tasks with large-scale training data .
Further study of the two models indicates that backward n-grams and longdistance triggers provide useful information to improve translation quality .
In future work , we would like to integrate the backward language model into a syntax - based system in a way that is similar to the proposed algorithm shown in Figure 1 .
We are also interested in exploring more morphologically - or syntacticallyinformed triggers .
For example , a verb in the past tense triggers another verb also in the past tense rather than the present tense .
2 ) P ( b 3 ) P ( b 2 | b 3 ) P ( b 1 | b 3 b 2 ) P ( R( e 2 ) L( e 1 ) ) P ( b 2 ) P ( b 1 | b 2 ) P ( a 3 | b 2 b 1 ) P ( a 2 | b 1 a 3 ) P(e 1 e 2 ) P ( b 3 ) P ( b 2 | b 3 ) P ( b 1 | b 3 b 2 ) P ( a 3 | b 2 b 1 ) P ( a 2 | b 1 a 3 ) P ( a 1 | a 3 a 2 )
