title
Integrating Phrase- based Reordering Features into a Chart- based Decoder for Machine Translation
abstract
Hiero translation models have two limitations compared to phrase - based models :
1 ) Limited hypothesis space ; 2 ) No lexicalized reordering model .
We propose an extension of Hiero called Phrasal - Hiero to address Hiero 's second problem .
Phrasal - Hiero still has the same hypothesis space as the original Hiero but incorporates a phrase - based distance cost feature and lexicalized reodering features into the chart decoder .
The work consists of two parts : 1 ) for each Hiero translation derivation , find its corresponding discontinuous phrase - based path .
2 ) Extend the chart decoder to incorporate features from the phrase - based path .
We achieve significant improvement over both Hiero and phrase - based baselines for Arabic-English , Chinese -English and German-English translation .
Introduction Phrase- based and tree- based translation model are the two main streams in state - of - the - art machine translation .
The tree-based translation model , by using a synchronous context- free grammar formalism , can capture longer reordering between source and target language .
Yet , tree - based translation often underperforms phrase - based translation in language pairs with short range reordering such as Arabic- English translation ( Zollmann et al. , 2008 ; Birch et al. , 2009 ) .
We follow Koehn et al. ( 2003 ) for our phrasebased system and Chiang ( 2005 ) for our Hiero system .
In both systems , the translation of a source sentence f is the target sentence e * that maximizes a linear combination of features and weights : e * , a * = argmax e, a ?H ( f ) m?M ? m h m ( e , f , a ) . ( 1 ) where ?
a is a translation path of f .
In the phrasebased system , a ph represents a segmentation of e and f and a correspondance of phrases .
In the Hiero system , a tr is a derivation of a parallel parse tree of f and e , each nonterminal representing a rule in the derivation .
?
H ( f ) is the hypothesis space of the sentence f .
We denote H ph ( f ) as the phrase - based hypothesis space of f and H tr ( f ) as its treebased hypothesis space .
point out that due to the hard constraints of rule combination , the tree- based system does not have the same excessive hypothesis space as the phrase - based system . ?
M is the set of feature indexes used in the decoder .
Many features are shared between phrase - based and tree- based systems including language model , word count , and translation model features .
Phrase - based systems often use a lexical reordering model in addition to the distance cost feature .
The biggest difference in a Hiero system and a phrase - based system is in how the reordering is modeled .
In the Hiero system , the reordering decision is encoded in weighted translation rules , determined by nonterminal mappings .
For example , the rule X ? ne X 1 pas ; not X 1 : w indicates the translation of the phrase between ne and pas to be after the English word not with score w .
During decoding , the system parses the source sentence and synchronously generates the target output .
To achieve reordering , the phrase - based system translates source phrases out of order .
A reordering distance limit is imposed to avoid search space explosion .
Most phrase - based systems are equipped with a distance reordering cost feature to tune the system towards the right amount of reordering , but then also a lexicalized reordering model to model the direction of adjacent source phrases reordering as either monotone , swap or discontinuous .
There are two reasons to explain the shortcomings of the current Hiero system : 1 . A limited hypothesis space because the synchronous context-free grammar is not applicable to non-projective dependencies .
2 . It does not have the expressive lexicalized reordering model and distance cost features of the phrase - based system .
When comparing phrase- based and Hiero translation models , most of previous work on treebased translation addresses its limited hypothesis space problem .
Huck et al. ( 2012 ) add new rules into the Hiero system , Carreras and Collins ( 2009 ) apply the tree adjoining grammar formalism to allow highly flexible reordering .
On the other hand , the Hiero model has the advantage of capturing long distance and structure reordering .
extend phrase - based translation by allowing gaps within phrases such as ne . . . pas , not , so the decoder still has the discriminative reordering features of phrase - based , but also uses on average longer phrases .
However , these phrase pairs with gaps do not capture structure reordering as do Hiero rules with nonterminal mappings .
For example , the rule X ? ne X 1 pas ; not X 1 explicitly places the translation of the phrase between ne and pas behind the English word not through nonterminal X 1 .
This is important for language pairs with strict reordering .
In our Chinese-English experiment , the Hiero system still outperforms the discontinuous phrasebased system .
We address the second problem of the original Hiero decoder by mapping Hiero translation derivations to corresponding phrase - based paths , which not only have the same output but also preserve structure distortion of the Hiero translation .
We then include phrase - based features into the Hiero decoder .
A phrase - based translation path is the sequence of phrase-pairs , whose source sides cover the source sentence and whose target sides generate the target sentence from left to right .
If we look at the leaves of a Hiero derivation tree , the lexicals also form a segmentation of the source and target sentence , thus also form a discontinuous phrasebased translation path .
As an example , let us look at the translation of the French sentence je ne parle pas le franc ? aise into English i do n't speak french in Figure 1 .
The Hiero decoder translates the sentence using a derivation of three rules : ? r 1 = X ? parle ; speak .
? r 2 = X ? ne X 1 pas ; don t X 1 . ? r 3 = X ?
Je X 1 le F ranc ? ais ; I X 1 f rench .
From this Hiero derivation , we have a segmentation of the sentence pairs into phrase pairs according to the word alignments , as shown on the left side of Figure 1 .
Ordering these phrase pairs according the word sequence on the target side , shown on the right side of Figure 1 , we have a phrasebased translation path consisting of four phrase pairs : ( je , i ) , ( ne . . . pas , not ) , ( parle , speak ) , ( lef rancaise , f rench ) that has the same output as the Hiero system .
Note that even though the Hiero decoder uses a composition of three rules , the corresponding phrase - based path consists of four phrase pairs .
We name this new variant of the Hiero decoder , which uses phrase - based features , Phrasal - Hiero .
Our Phrasal - Hiero addresses the shortcomming of the original Hiero system by incorporating phrase - based features .
Let us revisit machine translation 's loglinear model combination of features in equation 1 .
We denote ph(a ) as the corresponding phrase - based path of a Hiero derivation a , and M P h\H as the indexes of phrase - based features currently not applicable to the Hiero decoder .
Our Phrasal - Hiero decoder seeks to find the translation , which optimizes : e * , a * = argmax e, a ? Htr ( f ) m?M
H ? m h m ( e , f , a ) + + m ?M
P h\H ? m h m ( e , f , ph ( a ) ) .
We focus on improving the modelling of reordering within Hiero and include discriminative reordering features ( Tillmann , 2004 ) and a distance cost feature , both of which are not modeled in the original Hiero system .
Chiang et al. ( 2008 ) added structure distortion features into their decoder and showed improvements in their Chinese - English experiment .
To our knowledge , Phrasal - Hiero is the first system , which directly integrates phrase - based and Hiero features into one model .
( parle ; speak ) r 2 = X ? ne X 1 pas ; don t X 1 . 0-0 1- 1 2 - 0 ( ne . . . pas ; don t ) ; X 1 r3 = X ?
Je X1 le F rancais ; I X1 F rench 0 - 0 1 - 1 3 - 2 ( Je ; I ) ; X 1 ; ( le F rancais ; f rench ) r4 = X ? je X1 le X2 ; i X1 X2 0 -0 1 - 1 3 - 2 Not Applicable Table 1 : Rules and their sequences of phrase pairs and nonterminals Previous work has attempted to weaken the context free assumption of the synchronous context free grammar formalism , for example using syntactic non-terminals ( Zollmann and Venugopal , 2006 ) .
Our approach can be viewed as applying soft context constraint to make the probability of substituting a nonterminal by a subtree depending on the corresponding phrase - based reordering features .
In the next section , we explain the model in detail .
Phrasal - Hiero Model Phrasal - Hiero maps a Hiero derivation into a discontinuous phrase - based translation path by the following two steps :
1 . Training : Represent each rule as a sequence of phrase pairs and nonterminals .
2 . Decoding :
Use the rules ' sequences of phrase pairs and nonterminals to find the corresponding phrase - based path of a Hiero derivation and calculate its feature scores .
Map Rule to A Sequence of Phrase Pairs and Nonterminals
We segment the rules ' lexical items into phrase pairs .
These phrase pairs will be part of the phrasebased translation path in the decoding step .
The rules ' nonterminals are also preserved in the sequence , during the decoding they will be substituted by other rules ' phrase pairs .
We now explain how to map a rule to a sequence of phrase pairs and nonterminals . ) defines the sequence of nonterminals on the target .
s i or t i , i = 0 . . . k are phrases between nonterminals , they can be empty because nonterminals can be at the border of the rule or two nonterminals are adjacent .
For example the rule X ? ne X 1 pas ; not X 1 has k = 1 , s 0 = ne , s 1 = pas , t 0 = not , t 1 is an empty phrase because the target X 1 is at the rightmost position .
Let r = X ? s 0 X 1 s 1 . . . X k s k ; t 0 X ?( 1 ) t 1 . . . X ?( k ) t k be a rule of k nonterminals , ?(.
Phrasal - Hiero retains both nonterminals and lexical alignments of Hiero rules instead of only nonterminal mappings as in ( Chiang , 2005 ) .
A rule 's lexical alignment is the most frequent one in the training data .
We use the lexical alignments of a rule to decide how source phrases and target phrases are connected .
In the rule r , a source phrase s i is connected to a target phrase t i if at least one word in s i aligns to a target word in t i .
In the rule X ?
Je X 1 le F ranc ? ais ; I X 1 f rench extract from sentence pair in Figure 1 , the phrase le Franc ? ais connects to the phrase french because the French word Franc ? ais aligns with the English word french even though le is unaligned .
We then group the source phrases and target phrases into phrase pairs such that only phrases that are connected to each other are in the same phrase pair .
So phrase pairs still preserve the lexical dependency of the rule .
Phrase pairs and nonterminals are then ordered according to the target side of the rule .
Table 1 shows an example of rules , alignments and their sequences of phrase pairs and nonterminals on the last column .
There are Hiero rules in which one of its source phrases or target phrases is not aligned .
For example in the rule r 4 = X ? je X 1 le X 2 ; i X 1 X 2 extracted from the sentence pair in Figure 2 , the phrase le is not aligned .
In our Arabic- English experiment , rules without nonaligned phrases account for only 48.54 % of the total rules .
We compared the baseline Hiero translation from the full set of rules and the translation from only rules without nonaligned phrases .
The later translation is faster and Table 2 1 shows that it outperforms the translation with the whole set of rules .
We therefore decided to not use rules with nonaligned phrases in Phrasal - Hiero .
It is important to note that there are different ways to use all the rules and map rules with unaligned phrases into a sequence of phrase pairs .
For example , adding these unaligned phrases to the previous phrase pair i.e. the rule r 4 has one discontinuous phrase pair ( je . . . le , i ) or treat these unaligned phrases as deletion / insertion phrases .
We started the work with Arabic-English translation and decided not to use rules with nonaligned phrases in Phrasal - Hiero .
In the experiment section , we will discuss the impact of removing rules with nonaligned sub-phrases in our German-English and Chinese - English experiments .
Training : Lexicalized Reordering Table Phrasal - Hiero needs a phrase - based lexicalized reordering table to calculate the features .
The lexicalized reordering table could be from a discontinuous phrase - based system .
To guarantee the lexicalized reordering table to cover all phrase pairs of the rule table , we extract phrase -pairs and their reordering directions during rule extraction .
Let ( s , t ) be a sentence pair in the training data and r = X ? s 0 X 1 s 1 . . . X k s k ; t 0 X 1 t 1 . . . X k t k be a rule extracted from the sentence .
The lexical phrase pair corresponding to the rule r is ph = ( s 0 . . . s 1 . . . s k , t 0 . . . t 1 . . . t k ) , with nonterminals are replaced by the gaps .
Because the nonterminal could be at the border of the rule , the lexical phrase pair might have smaller coverage than the rule .
For example , the training sentence pair in Figure 2 generates the rule r2 = X ? ne X 1 pas ; don t X 1 spanning ( 1 . . . 3 , 1 . . . 2 ) but its lexical phrase pair ( ne . . . pas , not ) only spans ( 1 . . . 3 , 1 . . . 1 ) .
Also , two different rules can have the same lexical phrase pairs .
In Phrasal - Hiero , each lexical phrase pair is only generated once for a sentence .
Look at the example of the training sentence pair in Figure 2 , the rule X ? je ; I spanning ( 0 . . . 1 , 0 . . . 1 ) and the rule X ? je X 1 ; I X 1 spanning ( 0 . . . 3 , 0 . . . 2 ) are both sharing the same lexical phrase pair ( je , i ) spanning ( 0 . . . 1 , 0 . . . 1 ) .
But Phrasal - Hiero only gen-erates ( je , i ) once for the sentence .
Phrase pairs are generated together with phrase - based reordering orientations to build lexicalized reordering table .
3 Decoding Chiang ( 2007 ) applied bottom up chart parsing to parse the source sentence and project on the target side for the best translation .
Each chart cell [ X , i , j , r] indicates a subtree with rule r at the root covers the translation of the i-th word upto the j-th word of the source sentence .
We extend the chart parsing , mapping the subtree to the equivalent discontinuous phrase - based path and includes phrasebased features to the log-linear model .
In Phrasal - Hiero , each chart cell [ X , i , j , r] also stores the first phrase pair and the last phrase pair of the phrase - based translation path covered the ith to the j-th word of the source sentence .
These two phrase pairs are the back pointers to calculate reordering features of later larger spans .
Because the distance cost feature and phrase - based discriminative reordering feature calculation are both only required the source coverage of two adjacent phrase pairs , we explain here the distance cost calculation .
We will again use three rules r 1 , r 2 , r 3 in Table 1 and the translation je ne parle pas le franc ? ais into I do n't speak French to present the technique .
Table 3 shows the distance cost calculation .
First , when the rule r has only terminals , the rule 's sequence of phrase pairs and nonterminals consists of only a phrase pair .
No calculation is needed , the first phrase pair and the last phrase pair are the same .
The chart cell X 1 : 2 . . . 2 in Table 3 shows the translation with the rule r 1 = X ? parle ; speak .
The first phrase pair and the last phrase pair point to the phrase ( parle , speak ) spanning 2 . . . 2 of the source sentence .
When the translation rule 's right hand side has nonterminals , the nonterminals in the sequence belong to smaller chart cells that we already found phrase - based paths and calculated their features before .
The decoder then substitute these paths into the rule 's sequence of phrase pairs and nonterminals to form the complete path for the current span .
We now demonstrate finding the phrase based path and calculate distance cost of the chart cell X 2 spanning 1 . . . 3 . The next phrase pair of ( ne . . . pas , don t ) is the first phrase pair of the chart cell X 1 which is ( parle , speak ) .
The distance cost of these two phrase pairs according to discontinuous phrase - based model is | 2 ? 3 ? 1 | = 2 .
The distance cost of the whole chart cell X 2 also includes the cost of the translation path covered by chart cell X 1 which is 0 , therefore the distance cost for X 2 is 2 + dist ( X 1 ) = 2 .
We then update the first phrase pair and the last phrase pair of cell X 2 .
The first phrase pair of X 2 is ( ne . . . pas , don t ) , the last phrase pair is also the last phrase pair of cell X 1 which is ( parle , speak ) .
Similarly , finding the phrase - based path and calculate its distortion features in the chart cell X 3 include calculate the feature values for moving from the phrase pair ( je , I ) to the first phrase pair of chart cell X 2 and also from last phrase pair of chart cell X 2 to the phrase pair ( le f ranc ? aise , f rench ) .
Experiment Results
In all experiments we use phrase-orientation lexicalized reordering ( Galley and Manning , 2008 ) 2 which models monotone , swap , discontinuous orientations from both reordering with previous phrase pair and with the next phrase pair .
There are total six features in lexicalized reordering model .
We will report the impact of integrating phrasebased features into Hiero systems for three language pairs : Arabic-English , Chinese-English and German-English .
System Setup
We are using the following three baselines : ?
Phrase - based without lexicalized reodering features .
( PB +nolex ) ?
Phrase - based with lexicalized reordering features . ( PB +lex ) ?
Hiero system with all rules extracted from training data .
( Hiero )
We use Moses phrase - based and chart decoder ( Koehn et al. , 2007 ) 1 . will compare if these improvements still carry on into Hiero systems .
The original Hiero system with all rules extracted from training data ( Hiero ) is the most relevant baseline .
We will evaluate the difference between this Hiero baseline and our Phrasal - Hiero .
To implement Phrasal - Hiero , we extented Moses chart decoder ( Koehn et al. , 2007 ) to include distance - based reordering as well as the lexicalized phrase orientation reordering model .
We will report the following results for Phrasal - Hiero : ?
Hiero translation results on the subset of rules without unaligned phrases .
( we denote this in the table scores as P.H. ) ?
Phrasal - Hiero with phrase - based distance cost feature ( P.H. + dist ) .
?
Phrasal - Hiero with phrase - based lexicalized reordering features ( P.H.+lex ) .
?
Phrasal - Hiero with distance cost and lexicalized reordering features ( P.H.+ dist+lex ) .
Arabic-English Results
The Arabic-English system was trained from 264 K sentence pairs with true case English .
versus 46.73 ) .
We make the same observation as Zollmann et al . ( 2008 ) , i.e , that the Hiero baseline system underperforms compared to the phrasebased system with lexicalized phrase - based reordering for Arabic - English in all test sets , on average by about 0.60 BLEU points ( 46.13 versus 46.73 ) .
This is because Arabic language has relative free reordering , but mostly short distance , which is better captured by discriminative reordering features .
The next four rows in the second block of Table 4 show Phrasal - Hiero results .
The P.H. line is the result of Hiero experiment on only a subset of rules without nonaligned phrases .
As mentioned in section 2.1 , Phrasal - Hiero only uses 48.54 % of the rules but achieves as good or even better performance ( on average 0.24 BLEU points better ) compared to the original Hiero system using the full set of rules .
We do not benefit from adding only the distance - based reordering feature ( P.H+dist ) to the Arabic- English experiment but get significant improvements when adding the six features of the lexicalized reordering ( P.H+lex ) .
Table 4 shows that the P.H.+ lex system gains on average 0.67 BLEU points ( 47.04 versus 46.37 ) .
Even though the baseline Hiero underperforms phrase - based system with lexicalized reordering ( P.B+lex ) , the P.H.+ lex system already outperforms P.B+lex in all test sets ( on average 47.04 versus 46.73 ) .
Adding both distance cost and lexicalized reordering features ( P.H. + dist+lex ) performs the best .
On average P.H.+ dist+ lex improves 0.90 BLEU points over P.H. without new phrase - based features and 1.14 BLEU score over the baseline Hiero system .
Note that Hiero rules already have lexical context in the reordering , but adding phrase - based lexicalized reordering features to the system still gives us about as much improvement as the phrase - based system gets from lexicalized reordering features , here 1.07 BLEU points .
And our best Phrasal - Hiero significantly improves over the best phrase - based baseline by 0.54 BLEU points .
This shows that the underperformance of the Hiero system is due to its lack of lexicalized reordering features rather than a limited hypothesis space .
Chinese-English Results
The Chinese- English system was trained on FBIS corpora of 384 K sentence pairs , the English corpus is lower case .
The language model is the trigram SRI language model built from Xinhua corpus of 180 millions words .
We tuned the parameters on MT06 NIST test set of 1664 sentences and report the results of MT04 , MT05 and MT08 unseen test sets .
The results are in Table 5 .
We also make the same observation as Zollmann et al . ( 2008 ) on the baselines for Chinese -English translation .
Even though the phrasebased system benefits from lexicalized reordering , PB + lex on average outperforms PB + nolex by 1.16 BLEU points ( 25.87 versus 27.03 ) , it is the Hiero system that has the best baseline scores across all test sets , with and average of 27.70 BLEU points .
Phrasal Hiero scores are given in the second block of Table 5 .
It uses 84.19 % of the total training rules , but unlike the Arabic- English system , using a subset of the rules costs Phrasal - Hiero on all test sets and on average it loses 0.49 BLEU points ( 27.21 versus 27.70 ) et al. ( 2008 ) in their Chinese - English experiment , we benefit by adding the distance cost feature .
PH .+ dist outperforms P.H. on all test sets .
We have better improvements when adding the six features of the lexicalized reordering model : P.H. + lex on average has 28.05 BLEU points , i.e. gains 0.84 over P.H . .
The P.H.+ lex system is even better than the best Hiero baseline using the whole set of rules .
We again get the best translation when adding both the distance cost feature and the lexicalized reordering features .
The P.H+dist + lex has the best score across all the test sets and on average gains 1.14 BLEU points over P.H .
So adding phrasebased features to the Hiero system yields nearly the same improvement as adding lexicalized reordering features to the phrase - based system .
This shows that a strong Chinese-English Hiero system still benefits from phrase - based features .
Further more , the P.H+dist + lex also outperforms the Hiero baseline using all rules from training data .
German-English Results
We next consider German-English translation .
The systems were trained on 1.8 million sentence pairs using the Europarl corpora .
The language model is three - gram SRILM trained from the target side of the training corpora .
The Hiero baseline performs on average 0.26 BLEU points better than the phrase - based system with lexicalized reordering features ( PB + lex ) .
The hrasal - Hiero system used 80.54 % of the total training rules , but on average the P.H. system has the same performance as the Hiero system using all the rules extracted from training data .
Similar to the Arabic-English experiment , Phrasal - Hiero does not benefit from adding the distance cost feature .
We do , however , see improvements on all test sets when adding lexicalized reordering features .
On average the P.H.+ lex results are 0.32 BLEU points higher than the P.H. results .
The best scores are achieved with P.H+lex + dist .
The German-English translations on average gain 0.38 BLEU score by adding both distance cost and discriminative reordering features .
Impact of segment rules into phrase pairs Phrasal Hiero is the first system using rules ' lexical alignments .
If lexical alignments are not available , we can not divide the rules ' lexicals into phrase pairs without losing their dependancies .
An alternative approach would be combining all lexicals of a rule into one phrase pair .
We run an addition experiment for this approach on Arabic- English dataset .
Table 7 shows the examples rules and its new sequence of nonterminals and phrase pairs .
The rules r 1 and r 2 have the same sequences as in Table 1 .
Without segment rules into phrase pairs , the rule r 3 has only one phrase pair : ph = ( Je . . . le F rancaise ; I . . . f rench ) and ph is repeated twice in r 3 's sequence of phrase pairs and nonterminals .
The new experiment uses the complete set of rules so the rule r 4 is included .
According to the new sequence of phrase pairs and nonterminals , during decoding the rule r 3 has discontinous translation directions on both from phrase pair ph to the nonterminal X 1 and from X 1 to ph .
But using lexical alignment and divide the rule into phrase pairs as in section 2.1 , the sequence preserves the translation order of r 3 as two monotone translations from ( je ; I ) to X 1 and from X 1 to ( le F rancaise ; f rench ) .
( parle ; speak ) r 2 = X ? ne X 1 pas ; don t X 1 .
Avg ( ne . . . pas ; don t ) ; X 1 r3 = X ?
Je X1 le F rancais ; I X1 F rench ( Je . . . le F rancais ; I . . . f rench ) ; X 1 ; ( Je . . . le F rancais ; I . . . f rench ) r4 = X ? je X1 le X2 ; i X1 X2 ( je . . . le ; i ) ; X 1 ; X 2 Table 7 : Example of translation rules and their sequences of phrase pairs and nonterminals when lexical alignments are not available .
Hiero .
Using only rules without nonaligned phrases can get the same performance with translation with full set of rules for Arabic-English and German - English experiments but underperforms for the Chinese - English system .
We suggest the difference might come from the linguistic divergences of source and target languages .
Phrasal Hiero includes all lexical rules ( rules without nonterminal ) therefore it still has the same lexical coverage as the original Hiero system .
In the Arabic- English system , the Arabic is in ATB format , therefore most English words should have alignments in the ATB source , rules with nonaligned phrases could be the results of bad alignments or non-informative rules , therefore we could have better performance by using a subset of rules in Phrasal - Hiero .
As Chinese and English are highly divergent , we expect many phrases in one language correctly unaligned in the other language .
So leaving out the rules with nonaligned phrases could degrade the system .
Even though the current Phrasal - Hiero with extra phrase - based features outperforms the Hiero baseline , future work for Phrasal - Hiero will focus on including all rules extracted from training corpora .
We compare Phrasal - Hiero with a discontinuous phrase - based system introduced by for Chinese -English and German-English system .
Table 10 shows the average results .
We used Phrasal decoder ( Cer et al. , 2010 ) for phrase - based with gaps ( PB + lex + gap ) results .
While we do not focus on the differences in the toolkits , our Phrasal - Hiero still outperforms the phrase - based with gaps experiments .
Discontinuous
Conclusion
We have presented a technique to combine phrasebased features and tree- based features into one model .
Adding a distance cost feature , we only get better translation for Chinese -English translation .
Phrasal - Hiero benefits from adding discriminative reodering features in all experiment .
We achieved the best result when adding both distance cost and lexicalized reordering features .
Phrasal - Hiero currently uses only a subset of rules from training data .
A future work on the model can include complete rule sets together with word insertion / deletion features for nonaligned phrases .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Example of French -English Hiero Translation on the left and its corresponding discontinuous phrase - based translation on the right .
Rules Alignments
Phrase pairs & nonterminals r1 = X ? parle ; speak .
0-0
