title
Findings of the 2013 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation
abstract
We present the results of the WMT13 shared tasks , which included a translation task , a task for run-time estimation of machine translation quality , and an unofficial metrics task .
This year , 143 machine translation systems were submitted to the ten translation tasks from 23 institutions .
An additional 6 anonymized systems were included , and were then evaluated both automatically and manually , in our largest manual evaluation to date .
The quality estimation task had four subtasks , with a total of 14 teams , submitting 55 entries .
Introduction
We present the results of the shared tasks of the Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation ( WMT ) held at ACL 2013 .
This workshop builds on seven previous WMT workshops ( Koehn and Monz , 2006 ; Callison - Burch et al. , 2007 , 2011 .
This year we conducted three official tasks : a translation task , a human evaluation of translation results , and a quality estimation task .
1
In the translation task ( ? 2 ) , participants were asked to translate a shared test set , optionally restricting themselves to the provided training data .
We held ten translation tasks this year , between English and each of Czech , French , German , Spanish , and Russian .
The Russian translation tasks were new this year , and were also the most popular .
The system outputs for each task were evaluated both automatically and manually .
The human evaluation task ( ?3 ) involves asking human judges to rank sentences output by anonymized systems .
We obtained large numbers of rankings from two groups : researchers ( who contributed evaluations proportional to the number of tasks they entered ) and workers on Amazon 's Mechanical Turk ( who were paid ) .
This year 's effort was our largest yet by a wide margin ; we managed to collect an order of magnitude more judgments than in the past , allowing us to achieve statistical significance on the majority of the pairwise system rankings .
This year , we are also clustering the systems according to these significance results , instead of presenting a total ordering over systems .
The focus of the quality estimation task ( ?6 ) is to produce real -time estimates of sentence - or word - level machine translation quality .
This task has potential usefulness in a range of settings , such as prioritizing output for human post-editing , or selecting the best translations from a number of systems .
This year the following subtasks were proposed : prediction of percentage of word edits necessary to fix a sentence , ranking of up to five alternative translations for a given source sentence , prediction of post-editing time for a sentence , and prediction of word - level scores for a given translation ( correct / incorrect and types of edits ) .
The datasets included English -Spanish and German-English news translations produced by a number of machine translation systems .
This marks the second year we have conducted this task .
The primary objectives of WMT are to evaluate the state of the art in machine translation , to disseminate common test sets and public training data with published performance numbers , and to refine evaluation methodologies for machine translation .
As before , all of the data , translations , and collected human judgments are publicly available .
2
We hope these datasets serve as a valuable resource for research into statistical machine translation , system combination , and automatic evaluation or prediction of translation quality .
Overview of the Translation Task
The recurring task of the workshop examines translation between English and five other languages : German , Spanish , French , Czech , andnew this year - Russian .
We created a test set for each language pair by translating newspaper articles and provided training data .
Test data
The test data for this year 's task was selected from news stories from online sources .
A total of 52 articles were selected , in roughly equal amounts from a variety of Czech , English , French , German , Spanish , and Russian news sites : 3 Czech : aktu?ln?.cz ( 1 ) , CTK ( 1 ) , den ? k ( 1 ) , iDNES.cz ( 3 ) , lidovky.cz ( 1 ) , Novinky.cz ( 2 ) French : Cyber Presse ( 3 ) , Le Devoir ( 1 ) , Le Monde ( 3 ) , Liberation ( 2 ) Spanish : ABC.es ( 2 ) , BBC Spanish ( 1 ) , El Periodico ( 1 ) , Milenio ( 3 ) , Noroeste ( 1 ) , Primera Hora ( 3 ) English : BBC ( 2 ) , CNN ( 2 ) , Economist ( 1 ) , Guardian ( 1 ) , New York Times ( 2 ) , The Telegraph ( 1 ) German : Der Standard ( 1 ) , Deutsche Welle ( 1 ) , FAZ ( 1 ) , Frankfurter Rundschau ( 2 ) , Welt ( 2 ) Russian : AIF ( 2 ) , BBC Russian ( 2 ) , Izvestiya ( 1 ) , Rosbalt ( 1 ) , Vesti ( 1 )
The stories were translated by the professional translation agency Capita , funded by the EU Framework Programme 7 project MosesCore , and by Yandex , a Russian search engine .
4
All of the translations were done directly , and not via an intermediate language .
Training data
As in past years we provided parallel corpora to train translation models , monolingual corpora to train language models , and development sets to tune system parameters .
Some training corpora were identical from last year ( Europarl 5 , United Nations , French - English 10 9 corpus , CzEng ) , some were updated ( News Commentary , monolingual data ) , and new corpora were added ( Common Crawl ( Smith et al. , 2013 ) , Russian - English parallel data provided by Yandex , Russian - English Wikipedia Headlines provided by CMU ) .
Some statistics about the training materials are given in Figure 1 .
Submitted systems
We received 143 submissions from 23 institutions .
The participating institutions and their entry names are listed in Table 1 ; each system did not necessarily appear in all translation tasks .
We also included three commercial off - the-shelf MT systems and three online statistical MT systems , 6 which we anonymized .
For presentation of the results , systems are treated as either constrained or unconstrained , depending on whether their models were trained only on the provided data .
Since we do not know how they were built , these online and commercial systems are treated as unconstrained during the automatic and human evaluations .
Human Evaluation
As with past workshops , we contend that automatic measures of machine translation quality are an imperfect substitute for human assessments .
We therefore conduct a manual evaluation of the system outputs and define its results to be the principal ranking of the workshop .
In this section , we describe how we collected this data and compute the results , and then present the official results of the ranking .
We run the evaluation campaign using an updated version of Appraise ( Federmann , 2012 ) ; the tool has been extended to support collecting judgments using Amazon 's Mechanical Turk , replacing the annotation system used in previous WMTs .
The software , including all changes made for this year 's workshop , is available from GitHub .
7
This year differs from prior years in a few important ways : ?
We collected about ten times more judgments that we have in the past , using judgments from both participants in the shared task and non-experts hired on Amazon 's Mechanical Turk .
?
Instead of presenting a total ordering of systems for each pair , we cluster them and report a ranking over the clusters .
Europarl Parallel Corpus Spanish ? English French ? English German ? English Czech ?
English Sentences 1,965,734 2,007,723 1 , 920 , 209 646 , 605 Words 56 , 895 , 229 54 , 420 , 026 60 , 125 , 563 55 , 642 , 101 50 , 486 , 398 53 , 008 , 851 14 , 946 , 399 17 , 376 ,
Ranking translations of sentences
The ranking among systems is produced by collecting a large number of rankings between the systems ' translations .
Every language task had many participating systems ( the largest was 19 , for the Russian - English task ) .
Rather than asking judges to provide a complete ordering over all the translations of a source segment , we instead randomly select five systems and ask the judge to rank just those .
We call each of these a ranking task .
A screenshot of the ranking interface is shown in Figure 2 .
For each ranking task , the judge is presented with a source segment , a reference translation , and the outputs of five systems ( anonymized and randomly - ordered ) .
The following simple instructions are provided :
You are shown a source sentence followed by several candidate translations .
Your task is to rank the translations from best to worst ( ties are allowed ) .
The rankings of the systems are numbered from 1 to 5 , with 1 being the best translation and 5 being the worst .
Each ranking task has the potential to provide 10 pairwise rankings , and fewer if the judge chooses any ties .
For example , the ranking { A:1 , B:2 , C:4 , D:3 , E:5 } provides 10 pairwise rankings , while the ranking { A:3 , B:3 , C:4 , D:3 , E:1 } provides just 7 .
The absolute value of the ranking or the degree of difference is not considered .
We use the collected pairwise rankings to assign each system a score that reflects how highly that system was usually ranked by the annotators .
The score for some system A reflects how frequently it was judged to be better than other systems when compared on the same segment ; its score is the number of pairwise rankings where it was judged to be better , divided by the total number of nontying pairwise comparisons .
These scores were used to compute clusters of systems and rankings between them ( ?3.4 ) .
Collecting the data A goal this year was to collect enough data to achieve statistical significance in the rankings .
We distributed the workload among two groups of judges : researchers and Turkers .
The researcher group comprised partipants in the shared task , who were asked to contribute judgments on 300 sentences for each system they contributed .
The researcher evaluation was held over three weeks from May 17 - June 7 , and yielded about 280k pairwise rankings .
The Turker group was composed of non-expert annotators hired on Amazon 's Mechanical Turk ( MTurk ) .
A basic unit of work on MTurk is called a Human Intelligence Task ( HIT ) and included three ranking tasks , for which we paid $ 0.25 .
To ensure that the Turkers provided high quality annotations , this portion of the evaluation was begun after the researcher portion had completed , enabling us to embed controls in the form of highconsensus pairwise rankings in the Turker HITs .
To build these controls , we collected ranking tasks containing pairwise rankings with a high degree of researcher consensus .
An example task is here : - 0 0 0 3 B 5 -0 1 5 C 6 6 -0 6 D 6 8 5 -6 E 0 0 0 0 - Matrix entry M i , j records the number of researchers who judged System i to be better than System j .
We use as controls pairwise judgments for which | M i , j ?M j, i | > 5 , i.e. , judgments where the researcher consensus ran strongly in one direction .
We rejected HITs from Turkers who encountered at least 10 of these controls and failed more than 50 % of them .
There were 463 people who participated in the Turker portion of the manual evaluation , contributing 664 k pairwise rankings from Turkers who passed the controls .
Together with the researcher judgments , we collected close to a million pairwise rankings , compared to 101 k collected last year : a ten-fold increase .
The annotator is presented with a source segment , a reference translation , and the outputs of five systems ( anonymized and randomly - ordered ) and has to rank these according to their translation quality , ties are allowed .
For technical reasons , annotators on Amazon 's Mechanical Turk received all three ranking tasks for a single HIT on a single page , one upon the other .
Annotator agreement Each year we calculate annotator agreement scores for the human evaluation as a measure of the reliability of the rankings .
We measured pairwise agreement among annotators using Cohen 's kappa coefficient ( ? ) ( Cohen , 1960 ) , which is defined as ? = P ( A ) ? P ( E ) 1 ? P ( E ) where P ( A ) is the proportion of times that the annotators agree , and P ( E ) is the proportion of time that they would agree by chance .
Note that ? is basically a normalized version of P ( A ) , one which takes into account how meaningful it is for annotators to agree with each other , by incorporating P ( E ) .
The values for ?
range from 0 to 1 , with zero indicating no agreement and 1 perfect agreement .
We calculate P ( A ) by examining all pairs of systems which had been judged by two or more judges , and calculating the proportion of time that they agreed that A > B , A = B , or A < B .
In other words , P ( A ) is the empirical , observed rate at which annotators agree , in the context of pairwise comparisons .
As for P ( E ) , it should capture the probability that two annotators would agree randomly .
Therefore : P ( E ) = P ( A>B ) 2 + P ( A=B ) 2 + P ( A<B ) 2 Note that each of the three probabilities in P ( E ) 's definition are squared to reflect the fact that we are considering the chance that two annotators would agree by chance .
Each of these probabilities is computed empirically , by observing how often annotators actually rank two systems as being tied .
Table 3 gives ? values for inter-annotator agreement for WMT11 - WMT13 while Table 4 details intra-annotator agreement scores .
Due to the change of annotation software , we used a slightly different way of computing annotator agreement scores .
Therefore , we chose to re-compute values for previous WMTs to allow for a fair comparison .
The exact interpretation of the kappa coefficient is difficult , but according to Landis and Koch ( 1977 ) , 0-0.2 is slight , 0.2-0.4 is fair , 0 . 0.6-0.8 is substantial , and 0.8- 1.0 is almost perfect .
We find that the agreement rates are more or less the same as in prior years .
The WMT13 column contains both researcher and Turker annotations at a roughly 1:2 ratio .
The final two columns break out agreement numbers between these two groups .
The researcher agreement rates are similar to agreement rates from past years , while the Turker agreement are well below researcher agreement rates , varying widely , but often comparable to WMT11 and WMT12 .
Clearly , researchers are providing us with more consistent opinions , but whether these differences are explained by Turkers racing through jobs , the particularities that inform researchers judging systems they know well , or something else , is hard to tell .
Intra-annotator agreement scores are also on par from last year 's level , and are often much better .
We observe better intra-annotator agreement for researchers compared to Turkers .
As a small test , we varied the threshold of acceptance against the controls for the Turker data alone and computed inter-annotator agreement scores on the datasets for the Russian - English task ( the only language pair where we had enough data at high thresholds ) .
Table 5 shows that higher thresholds do indeed give us better agreements , but not monotonically .
The increasing ?s suggests that we can find a segment of Turkers who do a better job and that perhaps a slightly higher threshold of 0.6 would serve us better , while the remaining difference against the researchers suggests there may be different mindsets informing the decisions .
In any case , getting the best performance out of the Turkers remains difficult .
System Score Given the multitude of pairwise comparisons , we would like to rank the systems according to a single score computed for each system .
In re- cent evaluation campaigns , we tweaked the metric and now arrived at a intuitive score that has been demonstrated to be accurate in ranking systems according to their true quality ( Koehn , 2012 ) .
The score , which we call EXPECTED WINS , has an intuitive explanation .
If the system is compared against a randomly picked opposing system , on a randomly picked sentence , by a randomly picked judge , what is the probability that its translation is ranked higher ?
Formally , the score for a system S i among a set of systems { S j } given a pool of pairwise rankings summarized as win( A , B ) - the number of times system A is ranked higher than system B - is defined as follows : score ( S i ) = 1 |{ S j }| j , j =i win( S i , S j ) win( S i , S j ) + win( S j , S i ) Note that this score ignores ties .
Rank Ranges and Clusters Given the scores , we would like to rank the systems , which is straightforward .
But we would also like to know , if the obtained system ranking is statistically significant .
Typically , given the large number of systems that participate , and the similarity of the systems given a common training data condition and often common toolsets , there will be some systems that will be very close in quality .
To establish the reliability of the obtained system ranking , we use bootstrap resampling .
We sample from the set of pairwise rankings an equal sized set of pairwise rankings ( allowing for multiple drawings of the same pairwise ranking ) , compute the expected wins score for each system based on this sample , and rank each system .
By repeating this procedure a 1,000 times , we can determine a range of ranks , into which system falls at least 95 % of the time ( i.e. , at least 950 times ) corresponding to a p-level of p ? 0.05 .
Furthermore , given the rank ranges for each system , we can cluster systems with overlapping rank ranges .
8
For all language pairs and all systems , Table 6 reports all system scores , rank ranges , and clusters .
The official interpretation of these results is that systems in the same cluster are considered tied .
Given the large number of judgements that we collected , it was possible to group on average about two systems in a cluster , even though the systems in the middle are typically in larger clusters .
The motivation behind this procedure is that we want to save the time necessary for reading the sentence .
If the reviewer has already considered whether the sentence is an acceptable translation , they do not need to read the MT output again in order to post-edit it .
Our approach is thus somewhat the converse of Aziz et al . ( 2013 ) who analyze post-editing effort to obtain rankings of MT systems .
We want to measure the understandability of MT outputs and obtain post-edits at the same time .
Both annotation steps were carried out in the CASMACAT / Matecat post-editing user interface .
9 , modified to provide the relevant variants of the sentence next to the main edit box .
Screenshots of the two annotation phases are given in Figure 3 and Figure 4 . Similarly to the traditional ranking task , we provided three consecutive sentences from the original text , each translated with a different MT system .
The annotators are free to use this contextual information when guessing the meaning or reviewing the monolingual edits .
Each " annotation HIT " consists of 24 sentences , i.e. 8 snippets of 3 consecutive sentences .
Basic Statistics on Editing
In total , 21 annotators took part in the exercise , 20 of them contributed to monolingual editing and 19 contributed to the reviews .
Connecting each review with the monolingual edit ( some edits received multiple reviews ) , we obtain one data row .
We collected 4887 data rows ( i.e. sentence revisions ) for 3538 monolingual edits , covering 1468 source sentences as translated by 12 MT systems ( including the reference ) .
Not all MT systems were considered for each sentence , we preferred to obtain judgments for more source sentences .
Based on the annotation instructions , each data row has one of the four possible statuses : GOOD , ALMOST , BAD , and EMPTY .
GOOD rows are those where the reviewer accepted the monolingual edit without changes , ALMOST edits were modified by the reviewer but they were marked as ' OK ' .
BAD edits were changed by the reviewer and no ' OK ' mark was given .
Finally , the status EMPTY is assigned to rows where the monolingual editor refused to edit the sentence .
The EMPTY rows nevertheless contain the ( " regular " ) post-edit of the reviewer , so they still provide a new reference translation for the sentence .
Table 7 summarizes the distribution of row statuses depending on one more significant distinction : whether the monolingual editor has seen the sentence before or not .
We see that EMPTY and BAD monolingual edits together drop by about 6 % absolute when the sentence is not new to the monolingual editor .
The occurrence is counted as " repeated " regardless whether the annotator has previously seen the sentence in an editing or reviewing task .
Unless stated otherwise , we exclude repeated edits from our calculations .
Agreement on Understandability
Before looking at individual system results , we consider annotator agreement in the review step .
Details are given in Table 8 . Given a ( non - EMPTY ) string from a monolingual edit , we would like to know how often two acceptability judgments by two different reviewers ( inter - ) or the same reviewer ( intra - ) agree .
The repeated edits remain in this analysis because we are not interested in the origin of the string .
Our annotation setup leads to three possible labels : GOOD , ALMOST , and BAD .
The agreement on one of three classes is bound to be lower than the agreement on two classes , so we also reinterpret ALMOST as either GOOD or BAD .
Generally speaking , ALMOST is a positive judgment , so it would be natural to treat it as GOOD .
However , in our particular setup , when the reviewer modified the sentence and forgot to add the label ' OK : ' , the item ended up in the BAD class .
We conclude that this is indeed the case : the interannotator agreement appears higher if ALMOST is treated as BAD .
Future versions of the reviewing interface should perhaps first ask for the yes / no judgment and only then allow to post-edit .
The ? values in Table 8 are the Fleiss ' kappa ( Fleiss , 1971 ) , accounting for agreement by chance given the observed label distributions .
In WMT09 , the agreements for this task were higher : 77.4 for inter -AA and 86.6 for intra-AA .
( In 2010 , the agreements for this task were not reported . )
It is difficult to say whether the difference lies in the particular language pair , the different set of annotators , or the different user interface for our reviewing task .
In 2009 and 2010 , the reviewers were shown 5 monolingual edits at once and they were asked to judge each as acceptable or not acceptable .
We show just one segment and they have probably set their minds on the postediting rather than acceptability judgment .
We believe that higher agreements can be reached if the reviewers first validate one or more of the edits and only then are allowed to post-edit it .
Understandability of English ?
Czech Table 9 brings about the first main result of our post-editing effort .
For each system ( including the reference translation ) , we check how often a monolingual edit was marked OK or ALMOST by the subsequent reviewer .
The average understandability across all MT systems into Czech is 44.2?1.6 % .
This is a considerable improvement compared to 2009 where the best systems produced about 32 % understandable sentences .
In 9 : Understandability of English ?
Czech systems .
The ? values indicate empirical confidence bounds at 95 % .
Rank ranges were also obtained in the same resampling : in 95 % of observations , the system was ranked in the given range .
2010 , the best systems or system combinations reached 55 % - 58 % .
The test set across years and the quality of references and judgments also play a role .
In our annotation setup , the references appear to be correctly understandable only to 80.3?4.8 % .
To estimate the variance of these results due to the particular sentences chosen , we draw 1000 random samples from the dataset , preserving the dataset size and repeating some .
The exact num-ber of judgments per system can thus vary .
We report the 95 % empirical confidence interval after the ' ? ' signs in Table 9 ( the systems range from ?4.8 to ?5.5 ) .
When we drop individual blind editors or reviewers , the understandability judgments differ by about ?2 to ?4 .
In other words , the dependence on the test set appears higher than the dependence on the annotators .
The limited size of our dataset allows us only to separate two main groups of systems : those ranking 2 - 6 and those ranking worse .
This rough grouping vaguely matches with WMT13 ranking results as given in Table 6 .
A somewhat surprising observation is that two automatic corrections ranked better in WMT13 ranking but score worse in understandability : CU -DEPFIX fixes some lost negation and some agreement errors of CU - BOJAR and CU - PHRASEFIX is a standard statistical postediting of a transfer- based system CU - TECTOMT .
A detailed inspection of the data is necessary to explain this .
More Reference Translations for Czech Our annotation procedure described in Section 4 allowed us to obtain a considerable number of additional reference translations on top of official single reference .
In total , our edits cover 1468 source sentences , i.e. about a half of the official test set size , and provide 4311 unique references .
On average , one sentence in our set has 2.94 ?
2.17 unique reference translations .
Table 10 provides a histogram .
It is well known that automatic MT evaluation methods perform better with more references , because a single one may not confirm a correct part of MT output .
This issue is more severe for morphologically rich languages like Czech where about 1/3 of MT output was correct but not confirmed by the reference ( Bojar et al. , 2010 ) .
Advanced evaluation methods apply paraphrasing to smooth out some of the lexical divergence ( Kauchak and Barzilay , 2006 ; Snover et al. , 2009 ; Denkowski and Lavie , 2010 ) .
Simpler techniques such as lemmatizing are effective for morphologically rich languages ( Tantug et al. , 2008 ; Kos and Bojar , 2009 ) but they will lose resolution once the systems start performing generally well .
WMTs have taken the stance that a big enough test set with just a single reference should compensate for the lack of other references .
We use our post-edited reference translations to check this assumption for BLEU and NIST as implemented in mteval - 13a ( international tokenization switched on , which is not the default setting ) .
We run many probes , randomly picking the test set size ( number of distinct sentences ) and the number of distinct references per sentence .
Note that such test sets are somewhat artificially more diverse ; in narrow domains , source sentences can repeat and even appear verbatim in the training data , and in natural test sets with multiple references , short sentences can receive several identical translations .
For each probe , we measure the Spearman 's rank correlation coefficient ? of the ranks proposed by BLEU or NIST and the manual ranks .
We use the same implementation as applied in the WMT13 Shared Metrics Task ( Mach?ek and Bojar , 2013 ) .
Note that the WMT13 metrics task still uses the WMT12 evaluation method ignoring ties , not the expected wins .
As Koehn ( 2012 ) shows , the two methods do not differ much .
Overall , the correlation is strongly impacted by the particular choice of test sentences and reference translations .
By picking sentences randomly , similarly or equally sized test sets can reach different correlations .
Indeed , e.g. for a test set of about 1500 distinct sentences selected from the 3000 - sentence official test set ( 1 reference translation ) , we obtain correlations for BLEU between 0.86 and 0.94 .
Figure 5 plots the correlations of BLEU and the system rankings , Figure 6 provides the same picture for NIST .
The upper triangular part of the plot contains samples from our post-edited reference translations , the lower rectangular part contains probes from the official test set of 3000 sentences with 1 reference translation .
To interpret the observations , we also calculate the average and standard deviation of correlations for each cell in Figures 5 and 6 . BLEU and NIST , resp .
The projections confirm that the average correlations grow with test set size , the growth is however sub-logarithmic .
Starting from as few as a dozen of sentences , we see that using more references is better than using a larger test set .
For BLEU , we however already seem to reach false positives at 7 references for one or two hundred sentences : larger sets with just one reference may correlate slightly better .
Using one reference obtained by post-editing seems better than using the official ( independent ) reference translations .
BLEU is more affected than NIST by this difference even at relatively large test set size .
Note that our post-edits are inspired by all MT systems , the good as well as the bad ones .
This probably provides our set with a certain balance .
Overall , the best balance between the test set size and the number of references seems to lie somewhere around 7 references and 100 or 200 sentences .
Creating such a test set could be even cheaper than the standard 3000 sentences with just one reference .
However , the wide error bars remind us that even this setting can lead to correlations anywhere between 0.86 and 0.96 .
For other languages , data sets types or other MT evaluation methods , the best setting can be quite different and has to be sought for .
Quality Estimation Task Machine translation quality estimation is the task of predicting a quality score for a machine translated text without access to reference translations .
The most common approach is to treat the problem as a supervised machine learning task , using standard regression or classification algorithms .
The second edition of the WMT shared task on quality estimation builds on the previous edition of the task ( Callison - Burch et al. , 2012 ) , with variants to this previous task , including both sentence - level and word- level estimation , with new training and test datasets , along with evaluation metrics and baseline systems .
The motivation to include both sentence - and word - level estimation come from the different potential applications of these variants .
Some interesting uses of sentence - level quality estimation are the following : ?
Decide whether a given translation is good enough for publishing as is . ?
Inform readers of the target language only whether or not they can rely on a translation .
?
Filter out sentences that are not good enough for post-editing by professional translators .
?
Select the best translation among options from multiple MT and / or translation memory systems .
Some interesting uses of word-level quality estimation are the following : ?
Highlight words that need editing in postediting tasks .
?
Inform readers of portions of the sentence which are not reliable .
?
Select the best segments among options from multiple translation systems for MT system combination .
The goals of this year 's shared task were : ?
To explore various granularity levels for the task ( sentence - level and word- level ) .
?
To explore the prediction of more objective scores such as edit distance and post-editing time .
?
To explore the use of quality estimation techniques to replace reference - based MT evaluation metrics in the task of ranking alternative translations generated by different MT systems .
?
To identify new and effective quality indicators ( features ) for all variants of the quality estimation task .
?
To identify effective machine learning techniques for all variants of the quality estimation task . ?
To establish the state of the art performance in the field .
Four subtasks were proposed , as we discuss in Sections 6.1 and 6.2 .
Each subtask provides specific datasets , annotated for quality according to the subtask ( Section 6.3 ) , and evaluates the system submissions using specific metrics ( Section 6.6 ) .
When available , external resources ( e.g. SMT training corpus ) and translation engine-related resources were given to participants ( Section 6.4 ) , who could also use any additional external resources ( no distinction between open and close tracks is made ) .
Participants were also provided with a software package to extract quality estimation features and perform model learning ( Section 6.5 ) , with a suggested list of baseline features and learning method ( Section 6.7 ) .
Participants could submit up to two systems for each subtask .
Sentence-level Quality Estimation Task 1.1 Predicting Post-editing Distance
This task is similar to the quality estimation task in WMT12 , but with one important difference in the scoring variant : instead of using the post-editing effort scores in the [ 1 - 5 ] range , we use HTER ( Snover et al. , 2006 ) as quality score .
This score is to be interpreted as the minimum edit distance between the machine translation and its manually post-edited version , and its range is [ 0 , 1 ] ( 0 when no edit needs to be made , and 1 when all words need to be edited ) .
Two variants of the results could be submitted in the shared task : ?
Scoring : A quality score for each sentence translation in [ 0,1 ] , to be interpreted as an HTER score ; lower scores mean better translations .
?
Ranking :
A ranking of sentence translations for all source test sentences from best to worst .
For this variant , it does not matter how the ranking is produced ( from HTER predictions , likert predictions , or even without machine learning ) .
The reference ranking is defined based on the true HTER scores .
Task 1.3 Predicting Post-editing Time
For this task systems are required to produce , for each translation , the expected time ( in seconds ) it would take a translator to post- edit such an MT output .
The main application for predictions of this type is in computer-aided translation where the predicted time can be used to select among different hypotheses or even to omit any MT output in cases where no good suggestion is available .
Word-level Quality Estimation Based on the data of Task 1.3 , we define Task 2 , a word-level annotation task for which participants are asked to produce a label for each token that indicates whether the word should be changed by a post-editor or kept in the final translation .
We consider the following two sets of labels for prediction : ?
Binary classification : a keep / change label , the latter meaning that the token should be corrected in the post-editing process .
?
Multi-class classification : a label specifying the edit action that should be performed on the token ( keep as is , delete , or substitute ) .
Datasets Task 1.1 Predicting post-editing distance
For the training of models , we provided the WMT12 quality estimation dataset : 2,254 English - Spanish news sentences extracted from previous WMT translation task English - Spanish test sets ( WMT09 , WMT10 , and WMT12 ) .
These were translated by a phrase - based SMT Moses system trained on Europarl and News Commentaries corpora as provided by WMT , along with their source sentences , reference translations , post-edited translations , and HTER scores .
We used TERp ( default settings : tokenised , case insensitive , etc. , but capped to 1 ) 10 to compute the HTER scores .
Likert scores in [ 1 , 5 ] were also provided , as participants may choose to use them for the ranking variant .
As test data , we use a subset of the WMT13 English - Spanish news test set with 500 sentences , whose translations were produced by the same SMT system used for the training set .
To compute the true HTER labels , the translations were post-edited under the same conditions as those on the training set .
As in any blind shared task , the HTER scores were solely used to evaluate the submissions , and were only released to participants after they submitted their systems .
A few variations of the training and test data were provided , including a version with cases restored and a version detokenized .
In addition , we provided a number of engine-internal information from Moses for glass - box feature extraction , such as phrase and word alignments , model scores , word graph , n-best lists and information from the decoder 's search graph .
Task 1.2
Selecting best translation
As training data , we provided a large set of up to five alternative machine translations produced by different MT systems for each source sentence and ranked for quality by humans .
This was the outcome of the manual evaluation of the translation task from WMT09 - WMT12 .
It includes two language pairs : German-English and English - Spanish , with 7,098 and 4,592 source sentences and up to five ranked translations , totalling 32,922 and 22,447 translations , respectively .
As test data , a set of up to five alternative machine translations per source sentence from the WMT08 test sets was provided , with 365 ( 1,810 ) and 264 ( 1,315 ) source sentences ( translations ) for German-English and English - Spanish , respectively .
We note that there was some overlap between the MT systems used in the training data Task 1.3 and Task 2 Predicting post-editing time and word-level edits For Tasks 1.3 and 2 we provides a new dataset consisting of 22 English news articles which were translated into Spanish using Moses and post-edited during a CAS - MACAT 11 field trial .
Of these , 15 documents have been processed repeatedly by at least 2 out of 5 translators , resulting in a total of 1,087 segments .
For each segment we provided : ? English source and Spanish translation .
?
Spanish MT output which was used as basis for post-editing .
? Document and translator ID .
? Position of the segment within the document .
The metadata about translator and document was made available as we expect that translator performance and normalisation over document complexity can be helpful when predicting the time spend on a given segment .
For the training portion of the data we also provided : ?
Time to post-edit in seconds ( Task 1.3 ) .
? Binary ( Keep , Change ) and multiclass ( Keep , Substitute , Delete ) labels on word level along with explicit tokenization ( Task 2 ) .
The labels in Task 2 are derived by computing WER between the original machine translation and its post-edited version .
Resources
For all tasks , we provided resources to extract quality estimation features when these were available : ?
The SMT training corpus ( WMT News and Europarl ) : source and target sides of the corpus used to train the SMT engines for Tasks 1.1 , 1.3 , and 2 , and truecase models generated from these .
These corpora can also be used for Task 1.2 , but we note that some of the MT systems used in the datasets of this task were not statistical or did not use ( only ) the training corpus provided by WMT .
?
Language models : n-gram language models of source and target languages generated using the SMT training corpora and standard toolkits such as SRILM Stolcke ( 2002 ) , and a language model of POS tags for the target language .
We also provided unigram , bigram and trigram counts .
? IBM Model 1 lexical tables generated by GIZA ++ using the SMT training corpora . ?
Phrase tables with word alignment information generated by scripts provided by Moses from the parallel corpora .
? For Tasks 1.1 , 1.3 and 2 , the Moses configuration file used for decoding or the code to re-run the entire Moses system .
? For Task 1.1 , both English and Spanish resources for a number of advanced features such as pre-generated PCFG parsing models , topic models , global lexicon models and mutual information trigger models .
We refer the reader to the QUEST website 12 for a detailed list of resources provided for each task .
6.5 QUEST Framework QUEST ( Specia et al. , 2013 ) is an open source framework for quality estimation which provides a wide variety of feature extractors from source and translation texts and external resources and tools .
These range from simple , language - independent features , to advanced , linguistically motivated features .
They include features that rely on information from the MT system that generated the translations ( glass - box features ) , and features that are oblivious to the way translations were produced ( black - box features ) .
QUEST also integrates a well - known machine learning toolkit , scikit-learn , 13 and other algorithms that are known to perform well on this task ( e.g. Gaussian Processes ) , providing a simple and effective way of experimenting with techniques for feature selection and model building , as well as parameter optimisation through grid search .
From QUEST , a subset of 17 features and an SVM regression implementation were used as baseline for Tasks 1.1 , 1.2 and 1.3 .
The software was made available to all participants .
Evaluation Metrics Task 1.1
Predicting post-editing distance Evaluation is performed against the HTER and / or ranking of translations using the same metrics as in WMT12 .
For the scoring variant of the task , we use two standard metrics for regression tasks : Mean Absolute Error ( MAE ) as a primary metric , and Root of Mean Squared Error ( RMSE ) as a secondary metric .
To improve readability , we report these error numbers by first mapping the HTER values to the [ 0 , 100 ] interval , to be read as percentage -points of the HTER metric .
For a given test set S with entries s i , 1 ? i ? | S| , we denote by H(s i ) the proposed score for entry s i ( hypothesis ) , and by V ( s i ) the reference value for entry s i ( gold-standard value ) : MAE = N i=1 | H( s i ) ? V ( s i ) | | S| RMSE = N i=1 ( H( s i ) ? V ( s i ) ) 2 | S|
Both these metrics are non-parametric , automatic and deterministic ( and therefore consistent ) , and extrinsically interpretable .
For instance , a MAE value of 10 means that , on average , the absolute difference between the hypothesized score and the reference score value is 10 percentage points ( i.e. , 0.10 difference in HTER scores ) .
The interpretation of RMSE is similar , with the difference that RMSE penalises larger errors more ( via the square function ) .
For the ranking variant of the task , we use the DeltaAvg metric proposed in the 2012 edition of the task ( Callison - Burch et al. , 2012 ) as our main metric .
This metric assumes that each reference test instance has an extrinsic number associated with it that represents its ranking with respect to the other test instances .
For completeness , we present here again the definition of DeltaAvg .
The goal of the DeltaAvg metric is to measure how valuable a proposed ranking ( which we call a hypothesis ranking ) is , according to the true ranking values associated with the test instances .
We first define a parametrised version of this metric , called DeltaAvg [ n ] .
The following notations are used : for a given entry sentence s , V ( s ) represents the function that associates an extrinsic value to that entry ; we extend this notation to a set S , with V ( S ) representing the average of all V ( s ) , s ?
S. Intuitively , V ( S ) is a quantitative measure of the " quality " of the set S , as induced by the extrinsic values associated with the entries in S.
For a set of ranked entries S and a parameter n , we denote by S 1 the first quantile of set S ( the highest - ranked entries ) , S 2 the second quantile , and so on , for n quantiles of equal sizes .
14
We also use the notation S i , j = j k=i S k .
Using these notations , we define : DeltaAvg V [ n ] = n?1 k=1 V ( S 1 , k ) n ? 1 ? V ( S ) When the valuation function V is clear from the context , we write DeltaAvg [ n ] for DeltaAvg V [ n ] .
The parameter n represents the number of quantiles we want to split the set S into .
For instance , n = 2 gives DeltaAvg [ 2 ] = V ( S 1 ) ?V ( S ) , hence it measures the difference between the quality of the top quantile ( top half ) S 1 and the overall quality ( represented by V ( S ) ) .
For n = 3 , DeltaAvg [ 3 ] = ( V ( S 1 ) + V ( S 1,2 )/2?V ( S ) = ( ( V ( S 1 ) ?V ( S ) ) + ( V ( S 1,2 ?V ( S ) ) ) /2 , hence it measures an average difference across two cases : between the quality of the top quantile ( top third ) and the overall quality , and between the quality of the top two quantiles ( S 1 ? S 2 , top two -thirds ) and the overall quality .
In general , DeltaAvg [ n ] measures an average difference in quality across n ?
1 cases , with each case measuring the impact in quality of adding an additional quantile , from top to bottom .
Finally , we define : DeltaAvg V = N n=2 DeltaAvg V [ n ]
N ? 1 where N = | S | / 2 .
As before , we write DeltaAvg for DeltaAvg V when the valuation function V is clear from the context .
The DeltaAvg metric is an average across all DeltaAvg [ n ] values , for those n values for which the resulting quantiles have at least 2 entries ( no singleton quantiles ) .
We present results for DeltaAvg using as valuation function V the HTER scores , as defined in Section 6.3 .
We also use Spearman 's rank correlation coefficient ? as a secondary metric .
Task 1.2
Selecting best translation
The performance on the task of selecting the best translation from a pool of translation candidates is mea-sured by comparing proposed ( hypothesis ) rankings against human-produced rankings .
The metric used is Kendall 's ?
rank correlation coefficient , computed as follows : ? = | concordant pairs | ?
| discordant pairs | | total pairs | where a concordant pair is a pair of two translations for the same source segment in which the ranking order proposed by a human annotator and the ranking order of the hypothesis agree ; in a discordant pair , they disagree .
The possible values of ?
range between 1 ( where all pairs are concordant ) and ?1 ( where all pairs are discordant ) .
Thus a system with ranking predictions having a higher ?
value makes predictions that are more similar to human judgements than a system with ranking predictions having a lower ? .
Note that , in general , being able to predict rankings with an accuracy of ?
= ?1 is as difficult as predicting rankings with an accuracy of ? = 1 , whereas a completely random ranking would have an expected value of ? = 0 .
The range is therefore said to be symmetric .
However , there are two distinct ways of measuring rank correlation using Kendall 's ? , related to the way ties are treated .
They greatly affect how Kendall 's ?
numbers are to be interpreted , and especially the symmetry property .
We explain the difference in detail in what follows .
Kendall's ? with ties penalised
If the goal is to measure to what extent the difference in quality visible to a human annotator has been captured by an automatically produced hypothesis ( recalloriented view ) , then proposing a tie between t 1 and t 2 ( t 1 - equal - to -t 2 ) when the pair was judged ( in the reference ) as t 1 - better - tha n-t 2 is treated as a failure - to-recall .
In other words , it is as bad as proposing t 1 - worse - tha n -t 2 .
Henceforth , we call this recall-oriented measure " Kendall 's ? with ties penalised " .
This metric has the following properties : ? it is completely fair when comparing different methods to produce ranking hypotheses , because the denominator ( number of total pairs ) is the same ( it is the number of nontied pairs under the human judgements ) .
? it is non-symmetric , in the sense that a value of ?
= ?1 is not as difficult to obtain as ? = 1 ( simply proposing only ties gets a ? = ?1 ) ; hence , the sign of the ? value matters .
? the expected value of a completely random ranking is not necessarily ? = 0 , but rather depends on the number of ties in the reference rankings ( i.e. , it is test set dependent ) .
Kendall's ? with ties ignored
If the goal is to measure to what extent the difference in quality signalled by an automatically produced hypothesis is reflected in the human annotation ( precision - oriented view ) , then proposing t 1equal - to -t 2 when the pair was judged differently in the reference does no harm the metric .
Henceforth , we call this precision-oriented measure " Kendall 's ? with ties ignored " .
This metric has the following properties : ? it is not completely fair when comparing different methods to produce ranking hypotheses , because the denominator ( number of total pairs ) may not be the same ( it is the number of non-tied pairs under each system 's proposal ) .
? it is symmetric , in the sense that a value of ?
= ?1 is as difficult to obtain as ? = 1 ; hence , the sign of the ? value may not matter .
15 ? the expected value of a completely random ranking is ? = 0 ( test- set independent ) .
The first property is the most worrisome from the perspective of reporting the results of a shared task , because a system may fare very well on this metric simply because it choses not to commit ( proposes ties ) most of the time .
Therefore , to give a better understanding of the systems ' performance , for Kendall 's ? with ties ignored we also provide the number of non-ties proposed by each system .
Task 1.3 Predicting post-editing time Submissions are evaluated in terms of Mean Average Error ( MAE ) against the actual time spent by posteditors ( in seconds ) .
By using a linear error measure we limit the influence of outliers : sentences that took very long to edit or where the measurement taken is questionable .
To further analyse the influence of extreme values , we also compute Spearman 's rank correlation ?
coefficient which does not depend on the absolute values of the predictions .
We also give RMSE and Pearson 's correlation coefficient r for reference .
Task 2 Predicting word- level scores
The wordlevel task is primarily evaluated by macroaveraged F-measure .
Because the class distribution is skewed - in the test data about one third of the tokens are marked as correct - we compute precision and recall and F 1 for each class individually .
Consider the following confusion matrix for the two classes Keep and Change : predicted ( K ) eep ( C ) hange expected ( K ) eep 10 20 ( C ) hange 30 40
For the given example we derive true-positive ( tp ) , true-negative ( tn ) , false -positive ( fp ) , and false- negative ( fn ) counts : tp K = 10 f p K = 30 f n K = 20 tp C = 40 f p C = 20 f n C = 30 precision K = tp K tp K + f p K = 10/40 recall K = tp K tp K + f n K = 10/30 F 1 , K = 2 ? precision K ? recall K precision K + recall K A single cumulative statistic can be computed by averaging the resulting F-measures ( macro averaging ) or by micro averaging in which case precision and recall are first computed by accumulating the relevant values for all classes ( ?zg? r et al. , 2005 ) , e.g. precision = tp K + tp C ( tp K + f p K ) + ( tp C + f p C )
The latter gives equal weight to each example and is therefore dominated by performance on the largest class while macro- averaged F-measure gives equal weight to each class .
The same setup is used to evaluate the performance in the multiclass setting .
( Han et al. , 2013 ) UPC Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya , Spain ( Formiga et al. , 2013 b )
Table 11 : Participants in the WMT13 Quality Estimation shared task .
Participants
Table 11 lists all participating teams submitting systems to any subtask in this shared task .
Each team was allowed up to two submissions for each subtask .
In the descriptions below participation in specific tasks is denoted by a task identifier : T1.1 , T1.2 , T1.3 , and T2 .
Sentence -level baseline system ( T1.1 , T1.3 ) : QUEST was used to extract 17 systemindependent features from the source and translation files and the SMT training corpus that were found to be relevant in previous work ( same features as in the WMT12 shared task ) : ? number of tokens in the source and target sentences .
? average source token length .
? average number of occurrences of the target word within the target sentence .
? number of punctuation marks in source and target sentences .
?
Language model probability of source and target sentences using language models provided by the task .
? average number of translations per source word in the sentence : as given by IBM 1 model thresholded so that P ( t |s ) > 0.2 , and so that P ( t |s ) > 0.01 weighted by the inverse frequency of each word in the source side of the SMT training corpus .
? percentage of unigrams , bigrams and trigrams in frequency quartiles 1 ( lower frequency words ) and 4 ( higher frequency words ) in the source side of the SMT training corpus ?
percentage of unigrams in the source sentence seen in the source side of the SMT training corpus .
These features are used to train a Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) regression algorithm using a radial basis function kernel within the SCIKIT -LEARN toolkit .
The ? , and C parameters were optimized using a grid-search and 5 - fold cross validation on the training set .
We note that although the system is referred to as a " baseline " , it is in fact a strong system .
For tasks of the same type as 1.1 and 1.3 , it has proved robust across a range of language pairs , MT systems , and text domains for predicting post-editing effort , as it has also been shown in the previous edition of the task ( Callison - Burch et al. , 2012 ) .
The same features could be useful for a baseline system for Task 1.2 .
In our official re-sults , however , the baseline for Task 1.2 is simpler than that : it proposes random ranks for each pair of alternative translations for a given source sentence , as we will discuss in Section 6.8 . CMU ( T1.1 , T1.2 , T1.3 ) :
The CMU quality estimation system was trained on features based on language models , the MT system 's distortion model and phrase table features , statistical word lexica , several sentence length statistics , source language word and bi-gram frequency statistics , n-best list agreement and diversity , source language parse , source - target word alignment and a dependency parse based cohesion penalty .
These features were extracted using GIZA + + , a forced alignment algorithm and the Stanford parser ( de Marneffe et al. , 2006 ) .
The prediction models were trained using four classifiers in the Weka toolkit ( Hall et al. , 2009 ) : linear regression , M5P trees , multi layer perceptron and SVM regression .
In addition to main system submission , a classic n-best list re-ranking approach was used for Task 1.2 . CNGL ( T1.1 , T1.2 , T1.3 , T2 ) : CNGL systems are based on referential translation machines ( RTM ) ( Bic ?ici and van Genabith , 2013 ) , parallel feature decay algorithms ( FDA ) ( Bicici , 2013a ) , and machine translation performance predictor ( MTPP ) , all of which allow to obtain language and MT system-independent predictions .
For each task , RTM models were developed using the parallel corpora and the language model corpora distributed by the WMT13 translation task and the language model corpora provided by LDC for English and Spanish .
The sentence - level features are described in MTPP ; they include monolingual or bilingual features using ngrams defined over text or common cover link ( CCL ) ( Seginer , 2007 ) structures as the basic units of information over which similarity calculations are made .
RTMs use 308 features about coverage and diversity , IBM1 , and sentence translation performance , retrieval closeness and minimum Bayes retrieval risk , distributional similarity and entropy , IBM2 alignment , character n-grams , and sentence readability .
The learning mod-els are Support Vector Machines ( SVR ) and SVR with partial least squares ( SVRPLS ) .
The word- level features include CCL links , word length , location , prefix , suffix , form , context , and alignment , totalling 511 K features for binary classification , and 637 K for multiclass classification .
Generalised linear models ( GLM ) ( Collins , 2002 ) and GLM with dynamic learning ( GLMd ) were used .
DCU ( T1.2 ) :
The main German-English submission uses six Combinatory Categorial Grammar ( CCG ) features : CCG supertag language model perplexity and log probability , the number of maximal CCG constituents in the translation output which are the highestprobability minimum number of CCG constituents that span the translation output , the percentage of CCG argument mismatches between each subsequent CCG supertags , the percentage of CCG argument mismatches between each subsequent CCG maximal categories and the minimum number of phrases detected in the translation output .
A second submission uses the aforementioned CCG features combined with 80 features from QUEST as described in ( Specia , 2011 ) .
For the CCG features , the C&C parser was used to parse the translation output .
Moses was used to build the phrase table from the SMT training corpus with maximum phrase length set to 7 .
The language model of supertags was built using the SRILM toolkit .
As learning algorithm , Logistic Regression as provided by the SCIKIT -LEARN toolkit was used .
The training data was prepared by converting each ranking of translation outputs to a set of pairwise comparisons according to the approach proposed by Avramidis et al . ( 2011 ) .
The rankings were generated back from pairwise comparisons predicted by the model .
DCU -SYMC ( T1.1 ) :
The DCU - Symantec team employed a wide set of features which included language model , n-gram counts and word-alignment features as well as syntactic features , topic model features and pseudoreference features .
The main learning algorithm was SVR , but regression tree learning was used to perform feature selection , reducing the initial set of 442 features to 96 features ( DCU - Symantec alltypes ) and 134 ( DCU - Symantec combine ) .
Two methods for feature selection were used : a best-first search in the feature space using regression trees to evaluate the subsets , and reading binarised features directly from the nodes of pruned regression trees .
The following NLP tools were used in feature extraction : the Brown English Wall - Street - Journal - trained statistical parser ( Charniak and Johnson , 2005 ) , a Lexical Functional Grammar parser ( XLE ) , together with a hand-crafted Lexical Functional Grammar , the English ParGram grammar ( Kaplan et al. , 2004 ) , and the TreeTagger part- of-speech tagger ( Schmidt , 1994 ) with off - the-shelf publicly available pre-trained tagging models for English and Spanish .
For pseudoreference features , the Bing , Moses and Systran translation systems were used .
The Mallet toolkit ( McCallum , 2002 ) was used to build the topic models and features based on a grammar checker were extracted with Lan -16 DFKI ( T1.2 , T1.3 ) : DFKI 's submission for Task 1.2 was based on decomposing rankings into pairs ( Avramidis , 2012 ) , where the best system for each pair was predicted with Logistic Regression ( LogReg ) .
For German-English , LogReg was trained with Stepwise Feature Selection ( Hosmer , 1989 ) on two feature sets : Feature Set 24 includes basic counts augmented with PCFG parsing features ( number of VPs , alternative parses , parse probability ) on both source and target sentences ( Avramidis et al. , 2011 ) , and pseudo-reference METEOR score ; the most successful set , Feature Set 33 combines those 24 features with the 17 baseline features .
For English - Spanish , LogReg was used with L2 Regularisation ( Lin et al. , 2007 ) and two feature sets were devised after scoring features with ReliefF ( Kononenko , 1994 ) and Information Gain ( Hunt et al. , 1966 ) . Feature Set 431 combines 30 features with highest absolute Relief -F and Information Gain ( 15 from each ) .
features with the highest Task 1.3 was modelled using feature sets selected after Relief - F scoring of external black - box and glass - box features extracted from the SMT decoding process .
The most successful submission ( linear6 ) was trained with Linear Regression including the 17 features with highest positive Relief -F .
Most prominent features include the alternative possible parses of the source and target sentence , the positions of the phrases with the lowest and highest probability and future cost estimate in the translation , the counts of phrases in the decoding graph whose probability or whether the future cost estimate is higher / lower than their standard deviation , counts of verbs and determiners , etc .
The second submission ( pls8 ) was trained with Partial Least Squares regression ( Stone and Brooks , 1990 ) including more glass - box features .
FBK - Uedin ( T1.1 , T1.3 ) :
The submissions explored features built on MT engine resources including automatic word alignment , n-best candidate translation lists , back - translations and word posterior probabilities .
Information about word alignments is used to extract quantitative ( amount and distribution of the alignments ) and qualitative ( importance of the aligned terms ) features under the assumption that alignment information can help tasks where sentencelevel semantic relations need to be identified ( Souza et al. , 2013 ) .
Three similar English - Spanish systems are built and used to provide pseudo-references ( Soricut et al. , 2012 ) and back - translations , from which automatic MT evaluation metrics could be computed and used as features .
All features were computed over a concatenation of several publicly available parallel corpora for the English - Spanish language pair such as Europarl , News Commentary , and MultiUN .
The models were developed using supervised learning algorithms : SVMs ( with feature selection step prior to model learning ) and extremely randomized trees .
LIG ( T2 ) :
The LIG systems are designed to deal with both binary and multiclass variants of the word level task .
They integrate several features including : system - based ( graph topology , language model , alignment context , etc. ) , lexical ( Part - of - Speech tags ) , syntactic ( constituent label , distance to the con-stituent tree root ) and semantic ( target and source polysemy count ) .
Besides the existing components of the SMT system , feature extraction requires further external tools and resources , such as : TreeTagger ( for POS tagging ) , Bekerley Parser trained with AnCora treebank ( for generating constituent trees in Spanish ) , WordNet and BabelNet ( for polysemy count ) , Google Translate .
The feature set is then combined and trained using a Conditional Random Fields ( CRF ) learning method .
During the labelling phase , the optimal threshold is tuned using a small development set split from the original training set .
In order to retain the most informative features and eliminate the redundant ones , a Sequential Backward Selection algorithm is employed over the all-feature systems .
With the binary classifier , the Boosting technique is applied to allow a number of sub feature sets to complement each other , resulting in the " stronger " combined system .
LIMSI ( T1.1 , T1.3 ) :
The two tasks were treated as regression problems using a simple elastic regression , a linear model trained with L 1 and L 2 regularisers .
Regarding features , the submissions mainly aimed at evaluating the usefulness for quality estimation of n-gram posterior probabilities ( Gispert et al. , 2013 ) that quantify the probability for a given ngram to be part of the system output .
Their computation relies on all the hypotheses considered by a SMT system during decoding : intuitively , the more hypotheses a n-gram appears in , the more confident the system is that this n-gram is part of the correct translation , and the higher its posterior probability is .
The feature set contains 395 other features that differs , in two ways , from the traditional features used in quality estimation .
First , it includes several features based on large span continuous space language models ( Le et al. , 2011 ) that have already proved their efficiency both for the translation task and the quality estimation task .
Second , each feature was expanded into two " normalized forms " in which their value was divided either by the source length or the target length and , when relevant , into a " ratio form " in which the feature value computed on the target sentence is divided by its value computed in the source sentence .
LORIA ( T1.1 ) :
The system uses the 17 baseline features , plus several numerical and boolean features computed from the source and target sentences ( Langlois et al. , 2012 ) .
These are based on language model information ( perplexity , level of back - off , intra-lingual triggers ) , translation table ( IBM1 table , interlingual triggers ) .
For language models , forward and backward models are built .
Each feature gives a score to each word in the sentence , and the score of the sentence is the average of word scores .
For several features , the score of a word depends on the score of its neighbours .
This leads to 66 features .
Support Vector Machines are used to learn a regression model .
In training is done in a multistage procedure aimed at increasing the size of the training corpus .
Initially , the training corpus with machine translated sentences provided by the task is used to train an SVM model .
Then this model is applied to the postedited and reference sentences ( also provided as part of the task ) .
These are added to the quality estimation training corpus using as labels the SVM predictions .
An algorithm to tune the predicted scores on a development corpus is used .
SHEF ( T1.1 , T1.3 ) :
These submissions use Gaussian Processes , a non-parametric probabilistic learning framework for regression , along with two techniques to improve prediction performance and minimise the amount of resources needed for the problem : feature selection based on optimised hyperparameters and active learning to reduce the training set size ( and therefore the annotation effort ) .
The initial set features contains all black box and glass box features available within the QUEST framework ( Specia et al. , 2013 ) for the dataset at hand ( 160 in total for Task 1.1 , and 80 for Task 1.3 ) .
The query selection strategy for active learning is based on the informativeness of the instances using Information Density , a measure that leverages between the variance among instances and how dense the region ( in the feature space ) where the instance is located is .
To perform feature selection , following ( Shah et al. , 2013 ) features are ranked by the Gaussian Process algorithm according to their learned length scales , which can be interpreted as the relevance of such feature for the model .
This information was used for feature selection by discarding the lowest ranked ( least useful ) ones .
based on empirical results found in ( Shah et al. , 2013 ) , the top 25 features for both models were selected and used to retrain the same regression algorithm .
UPC ( T1.2 ) :
The methodology used a broad set of features , mainly available through the last version of the Asiya toolkit for MT evaluation ( Gonz ? lez et al. , 2012 ) 17 . Concretely , 86 features were derived for the German-to - English and 97 features for the English - to - Spanish tasks .
These features cover different approaches and include standard quality estimation features , as provided by the above mentioned Asiya and QUEST toolkits , but also a variety of features based on pseudo-references , explicit semantic sis and specialised language models trained on the parallel and monolingual corpora provided by the WMT Translation Task .
The system selection task is approached by means of pairwise ranking decisions .
It uses Random Forest classifiers with ties , expanding the work of 402013 cFormiga et al. ) , from which a full ranking can be derived and the best system per sentence is identified .
Once the classes are given by the Random Forest , one can build a graph by means of the adjacency matrix of the pairwise decision .
The final ranking is assigned through a dominance scheme similar to Pighin et al . ( 2012 ) .
An important remark of the methodology is the feature selection process , since it was noticed that the learner was sensitive to the features used .
Selecting the appropriate set of features was crucial to achieve a good performance .
The best feature combination was composed of : i ) a baseline quality estimation feature set ( Asiya or Quest ) but not both of them , ii ) Length Model , iii ) Pseudo- reference aligned based features , and iv ) adapted language models .
However , within the de-en task , substituting Length Model and Aligned Pseudo-references by the features based on Semantic Roles could bring marginally better accuracy .
TCD - CNGL ( T1.1 ) and TCD -DCU - CNGL ( T1.3 ) :
The system is based on features which are commonly used for style classification ( e.g. author identification ) .
The assumption is that low / high quality translations can be characterised by some patterns which are frequent and / or differ significantly from the opposite category .
Such features are intended to focus on striking patterns rather than to capture the global quality in a sentence , but they are used in conjunction with classical features for quality estimation ( language modelling , etc. ) .
This requires two steps in the training process : first the reference categories against which sentences will be compared are built , then the standard quality estimation model training stage is performed .
Both datasets ( Tasks 1.1 and 1.3 ) were used for both tasks .
Since the number of features can be very high ( up to 65,000 ) , a combination of various heuristics for selecting features was used before the training stage ( the submitted systems were trained using SVM with RBF kernels ) .
UMAC ( T1.1 , T1.2 , T2 ) : For Task 1.1 , the feature set consists in POS sequences of the source and target languages , using 12 universal tags that are common in both languages .
The algorithm is an enhanced version of the BLEU metric ( EBLEU ) designed with a modified length penalty and added recall factor , and having the precision and recall components grouped using the harmonic mean .
For Task 1.2 , in addition to the universal POS sequences of the source and target languages , features include the scores of length penalty , precision , recall and rank .
Variants of EBLEU with different strategies for alignment are used , as well as a Na?ve Bayes classification algorithm .
For Task 2 , the features used are unigrams ( from previous 4th to following 3rd tokens ) , bigrams ( from previous 2nd to following 2nd tokens ) , skip bigrams ( previous and next token ) , trigrams ( from previous 2nd to following 2nd tokens ) .
The learning algorithms are Conditional Random Fields and Na?ve Bayes .
Results
In what follows we give the official results for all tasks followed by a discussion that highlights the main findings for each of the tasks .
Task 1.1 Predicting post-editing distance Table 12 summarises the results for the ranking variant of the task .
They are sorted from best to worse using the DeltaAvg metric scores as primary key and the Spearman 's rank correlation scores as secondary key .
The winning submissions for the ranking variant of Task 1.1 are CNGL SVRPLS , with a DeltaAvg score of 11.09 , and DCU - SYMC alltypes , with a DeltaAvg score of 10.13 .
While the former holds the higher score , the difference is not significant at the p ?
0.05 level as estimated by a bootstrap resampling test .
Both submissions are better than the baseline system by a very wide margin , a larger relative improvement than that obtained in the corresponding WMT12 task .
In addition , five submissions ( out of 12 systems ) scored significantly higher than the baseline system ( systems above the middle gray area ) , which is a larger proportion than that in last year 's task ( only 3 out of 16 systems ) , indicating that this shared task succeeded in pushing the state - of - the - art performance to new levels .
In addition to the performance of the official submission , we report results obtained by two oracle methods : the gold - label HTER metric computed against the post-edited translations as reference ( Oracle HTER ) , and the BLEU metric ( 1 - BLEU to obtain the same range as HTER ) computed against the same post-edited translations as reference ( Oracle HBLEU ) .
The " Oracle HTER " DeltaAvg score of 16.38 gives an upperbound in terms of DeltaAvg for the test set used in this evaluation .
It indicates that , for this set , the difference in post-editing effort between the top quality quantiles and the overall quality is 16.38 on average .
The oracle based on HBLEU gives a lower DeltaAvg score , which is expected since HTER was our actual gold label .
However , it is still significantly higher than the score of the winning submission , which shows that there is significant room for improvement even by the highest scoring submissions .
The results for the scoring variant of the task are presented in Table 13 , sorted from best to worse by using the MAE metric scores as primary key and the RMSE metric scores as secondary key .
According to MAE scores , the winning submission is SHEF FS ( MAE = 12.42 ) , which uses feature selection and a novel learning algorithm for the task , Gaussian Processes .
The baseline system is measured to have an MAE of 14.81 , with six other submissions having performances that are not different from the baseline at a statistically significant level , as shown by the gray area in the middle of Table 13 ) .
Nine submissions ( out of 16 ) scored significantly higher than the baseline system ( systems above the middle gray area ) , a considerably higher proportion of submissions as compared to last year ( 5 out of 19 ) , which indicates that this shared task also succeeded in pushing the state - of - the - art performance to new levels in terms of absolute scoring .
Only one ( 6 % ) system scored significantly lower than the baseline , as opposed to 8 ( 42 % ) in last year 's task .
For the sake of completeness , we also show oracles figures using the same methods as for the ranking variant of the task .
Here the lowerbound in error ( Oracle HTER ) will clearly be zero , as both MAE and RMSE are measured against the same gold label used for the oracle computation .
" Oracle HBLEU " is also not indicative in this case , as the although the values for the two metrics ( HTER and HBLEU ) are within the same ranges , they are not directly comparable .
This explains the larger MAE / RMSE figures for " Oracle HBLEU " than those for most submissions .
Task 1.2
Selecting the best translation Below we present the results for this task for each of the two Kendall 's ? flavours presented in Section 6.6 , for the German- English test set ( Tables 14 and 16 ) and the English - Spanish test set ( Tables 15 and 17 ) .
The results are sorted from best to worse using each of the Kendall 's ? metric flavours .
For German- English , the winning submission is DFKI 's logRegFss33 entry , for both Kendall 's ? with ties penalised and ties ignored , with ? = 0.31 ( since this submission has no ties , the two metrics give the same ? value ) .
A trivial baseline that proposes random ranks ( with ties allowed ) has a Kendall 's ? with ties penalised of - 0.12 ( as this metric penalises the system 's ties that were nonties in the reference ) , and a Kendall 's ? with ties ignored of 0.08 .
Most of the submissions performed better than this simple baseline .
More interestingly perhaps is the comparison between the best submission and the performance by an ora -
13 : Official results for the scoring variant of the WMT13 Quality Estimation Task 1.1 .
The winning submission is indicated by a ?
( it is significantly better than the other submissions according to bootstrap resampling ( 10 k times ) with 95 % confidence intervals ) .
The systems in the gray area are not different from the baseline system at a statistically significant level according to the same test .
Oracle results that use human-references are also shown for comparison purposes .
German-English System ID Kendall's ? with ties penalised cle method that has access to human-created references .
This oracle uses human references to compute BLEU and METEOR scores for each translation segment , and consequently computes rankings for the competing translations based on these scores .
To reflect the impact of ties on the two versions of Kendall 's ?
metric we use , we allow these ranks to be tied if the difference between the oracle BLEU or METEOR scores is smaller than a margin ( see lower section of Tables 14 and 16 , with margins of 0 and 0.01 for the scores ) .
For example , under a regime of BLEU with margin 0.01 , a translation with BLEU score of 0.172 would get the same rank as a translation with BLEU score of 0.164 ( difference of 0.008 ) , but a higher rank than a translation with BLEU score of 0.158 ( difference of 0.014 ) .
Not surprisingly , under the Kendall 's ? with ties penalised the best Oracle BLEU or METEOR performance happens for a 0.0 margin ( which makes ties possible only for exactlymatching scores ) , for a value of ? = 0.19 and ? = 0.23 , respectively .
Under the Kendall 's ? with ties ignored , the Oracle BLEU performance for a 0.01 margin ( i.e , translations under 1 BLEU point should be considered as having the same rank ) achieves ? = 0.27 , while Oracle METEOR for a 0.01 margin achieves ? = 0.24 .
These values are lower than the ? = 0.31 of the winning submission without access to reference translations , suggesting that quality estimation models are capable of better modelling translation differences compared to traditional , human reference - based MT evaluation metrics .
For English - Spanish , under Kendall 's ? with ties penalised the winning submission is CNGL 's SVRPLSF1 , with ? = 0.15 .
Under Kendall's ? with ties ignored , the best scoring submission is CMU 's cls with ? = 0.23 , but this is achieved by offering non-tie judgements only for 192 of the 633 total judgements ( 30 % of them ) .
As we discussed in Section 6.6 , the " Kendall 's ? with ties ignored " metric is weak with respect to comparing different submissions , since it favours systems that are do not commit to a given rank and rather produce a large number of ties .
This becomes even clearer when we look at the performance of the oracle methods ( Tables 15 and 17 ) .
Under Kendall's ? with ties penalised , " Oracle BLEU " ( margin 0.00 ) achieves ? = 0.17 , while under Kendall 's ? with ties ignored , " Oracle BLEU " ( margin 0.02 ) has a ? = 0.26 .
This results in 474 non-tie deci-sions ( 75 % of them ) , and a better ? value compared to " Oracle BLEU " ( margin 0.00 ) , with a ? = 0.19 under the same metric .
The oracle values for both BLEU and METEOR are close to the ?
values of the winning submissions , supporting the conclusion that quality estimation techniques can successfully replace traditional , human referencebased MT evaluation metrics .
Task 1.3 Predicting post-editing time Results for this task are presented in Table 18 .
A third of the submissions was able to beat the baseline .
Among these FBK - UEDIN 's submission ranked best in terms of MAE , our main metric for this task , and also achieved the lowest RMSE .
Only three systems were able to beat our baseline in terms of MAE .
Please note that while all features were available to the participants , our baseline is actually a competitive system .
The second- best entry , CNGL SVR , reached the highest Spearman 's rank correlation , our secondary metric .
Furthermore , in terms of this metric all four top-ranking entries , two by CNGL and FBK - UEDIN respectively , are significantly better than the baseline ( 10 k bootstrap resampling test with 95 % confidence intervals ) .
As high ranking submissions also yield strong rank correlation to the observed post-editing time , we can be confident that improvements in MAE are not only due to better handling of extreme cases .
Many participants submitted two variants of their systems with different numbers of features and / or machine learning approaches .
In Table 18 we can see these are grouped closely together giving rise to the assumption that the general pool of available features and thereby the used resources and strongest features are most relevant for a system 's performance .
Another hint in that direction is the observation the top-ranked systems rely on additional data and resources to generate their features .
Task 2 Predicting word-level scores Results for this task are presented in Table 19 and 20 , sorted by macro average F 1 .
Since this is a new task , we have yet to establish a strong baseline .
For reference we provide a trivial baseline that predicts the dominant class -( K ) eep - for every token .
The first observation in average F 1 - it is clear that all systems outperform the baseline .
The winning systems by LIG for the binary task are also the top ranking systems on the multiclass task .
While promising results are found for the binary variant of the task where systems are able to achieve an F 1 of almost 0.5 for the relevant class - Change , the multiclass prediction variant of the task seem to suffer from its severe class imbalance .
In fact , none of the systems shows good performance when predicting deletions .
Discussion
In what follows , we discuss the main accomplishments of this shared task starting from the goals we had previously identified for it .
Explore various granularity levels for the quality - prediction task
The decision on which level of granularity quality estimation is applied depends strongly on the intended application .
In Task 2 we tested binary word-level classification in a post-editing setting .
If such annotation is presented through a user interface we imagine that words marked as incorrect would be hidden from the editor , highlighted as possibly wrong or that a list of alternatives would we generated .
With respect to the poor improvements over trivial baselines , we consider that the results for word- level prediction could be mostly connected to limitations of the datasets provided , which are very small for word - level prediction , as compared to successful previous work such as ( Bach et al. , 2011 ) .
Despite the limited amount of training data , several systems were able to predict dubious words ( binary variant of the task ) , showing that this can be a promising task .
Extending the granularity even further by predicting the actual editing action necessary for a word yielded less positive results than the binary setting .
We cannot directly compare sentence - and word-level results .
However , since sentence - level predictions can benefit from more information available and therefore more signal on which the prediction is based , the natural conclusion is that , if there is a choice in the prediction granularity , to opt for the coarser one possible ( i.e. , sentencelevel over word- level ) .
But certain applications may require finer granularity levels , and therefore word - level predictions can still be very valuable .
Explore the prediction of more objective scores Given the multitude of possible applications for quality estimation we must decide which predicted values are both useful and accurate .
In this year 's task we have attempted to address the usefulness criterion by moving from the subjective , human judgement - based scores , to the prediction of scores that can be more easily interpreted for practical applications : post-editing distance or types of edits ( word- level ) , post-editing time , and ranking of alternative translations .
The general promise of using objective scores is that predicting a value that is related to the use case will make quality estimation more applicable and yield lower deviance compared to the use of proxy metrics .
The magnitude of this benefit should be sufficient to account for the possible additional effort related to collecting such scores .
While a direct comparison between the different types of scores used for this year 's tasks is not possible as they are based on different datasets , if we compare last year 's task on predicting 1 - 5 likert scores ( and generating an overall ranking of all translations in the test set ) with this year 's
Task 1.1 , which is virtually the same , but using postediting distance as gold -label , we see that the number of systems that outperform the baseline 18 is proportionally larger this year .
We can also notice a higher relative improvement of these submissions over the baseline system .
While this could simply be a consequence of progress in the field , it may also provide an indication that objective metrics are more suitable for the problem .
Particularly with respect to post-editing time , given that this label has a long tailed distribution and is not trivial to measure even in a controlled environment , the results of Task 1.3 are encouraging .
Comparison with the better results seen on Tasks 1.1 and 1.2 , however , suggests that , for Task 1.3 , additional data processing , filtering , and modelling ( including modelling translator -specific traits such as their variance in time ) is required , as evidenced in ( Cohn and Specia , 2013 ) .
Explore the use of quality estimation techniques to replace reference - based MT evaluation metrics
When it comes to the task of automatically ranking alternative translations generated by different MT systems , the traditional use of reference - based MT evaluation metrics is challenged by the findings of this task .
The top ranking quality estimation submissions to Task 1.2 have performances that outperform or are at least at the same level with the ones that involve the use of human references .
The most interesting property of these techniques is that , being reference -free , they can be used for any source sentences , and therefore are ready to be deployed for arbitrary texts .
An immediate application for this capability is a procedure by which MT system-selection is performed , based on the output of such quality estimators .
Additional measurements are needed to determine the level of improvement in translation quality that the current performance of these techniques can achieve in a system-selection scenario .
Identify new and effective quality indicators Quality indicators , or features , are core to the problem of quality estimation .
One significant difference this year with respect to previous year was the availability of QUEST , a framework for the extraction of a large number of features .
A few submissions used these larger sets - as opposed to the 17 baseline features used in the 2012 edition - as their starting point , to which they added other features .
Most features available in this framework , however , had already been used in previous work .
Novel families of features used this year which seems to have played an important role are those proposed by CNGL .
They include a number of language and MT-system independent monolingual and bilingual similarity metrics between the sentences for prediction and corpora of the language pair under consideration .
Based on standard regression algorithm ( the same used by the baseline system ) , the submissions from CNGL using such feature families topped many of the tasks .
Another interesting family of features is that used by TCD - CNGL and TCD -DCU - CNGL for Tasks 1.1 and 1.3 .
These were borrowed from work on style or authorship identification .
The assumption is that low / high quality translations can be characterised by some patterns which are frequent and / or differ significantly from patterns belonging to the opposite category .
Like in last year 's task , the vast majority of the participating systems used external resources in addition to those provided for the task , particularly for linguistically - oriented features , such as parsers , part- of-speech taggers , named entity recognizers , etc .
A novel set of syntactic features based on Combinatory Categorial Grammar ( CCG ) performed reasonably well in Task 1.2 : with six CCG - based features and no additional features , the system outperformed the baseline system and also a second submission where the 17 baseline features were added .
This highlights the potential of linguistically -motivated features for the problem .
As expected , different feature sets were used for different tasks .
This is essential for Task 2 , where word - level features are certainly necessary .
For example , LIG used a number of lexical features such as part- of-speech tag , word - posterior probabilities , syntactic ( constituent label , distance to the constituent tree root , and target and source polysemy count ) .
For submissions where a sequence labelling algorithm such as a Conditional Random Fields was used for prediction , the interdependencies between adjacent words and labels was also modelled though features .
Pseudo-references , i.e. , scores from standard evaluation metrics such as BLEU based on translations generated by an alternative MT system as " reference " , featured in more than half of the submissions for sentence - level tasks .
This is not surprising given their performance in previous work on quality estimation .
Identify effective machine learning techniques for all variants of the quality estimation task
For the sentence - level tasks , standard regression methods such as SVR performed well as in the previous edition of the shared task , topping the results for the ranking variant of Task 1.1 , both first and second place .
In fact this algorithm was used by most submissions that outperformed the baseline .
An alternative algorithm to SVR with very promising results and which was introduced for the problem this year is that of Gaussian Processes .
It was used by SHEF , the winning submission in the scoring variant of Task 1.1 , which also performed well in the ranking variant , despite its hyperparameters having been optimised for scoring only .
Algorithms behave similarly for Task 1.3 , with SVR performing particularly well .
For Task 1.2 , logistic regression performed the best or among the best , along with SVR .
One of the most effective approach for this task , however , appears to be one that is better tailored for the task , namely pair-wise decomposition for ranking .
This approach benefits from transforming a k-way ranking problem into a series of simpler , 2 - way ranking problems , which can be more accurately solved .
Another approach that shows promise is that of ensemble of regressors , in which the output is the results combining the predictions of different regression models .
Linear-chain Conditional Random
Fields are a popular model of choice for sequence labelling tasks and have been successfully used by several participants in Task 2 , along with discriminatively trained Hidden Markov Models and Na?ve Bayes .
As in the previous edition , feature engineering and feature selection prior to model learning were important components in many submissions .
However , the role of individual features is hard to judge separately from the role of the machine learning techniques employed .
Establish the state of the art performance
All four tasks addressed in this shared task have achieved a dual role that is important for the research community : ( i ) to make publicly available new data sets that can serve to compare different approaches and contributions ; and ( ii ) to establish the present state - of - the - art performance in the field , so that progress can be easily measured and tracked .
In addition , the public availability of the scoring scripts makes evaluation and direct comparison straightforward .
Many participants submitted predictions for several tasks .
Comparison of the results shows that there is little overlap between the best systems when the predicted value is varied .
While we did not formally require the participants to use similar systems across tasks , these results indicate that specialised systems with features selected depending on the predicted variable can in fact be beneficial .
As we mentioned before , compared to the previous edition of the task , we noticed ( for Task 1.1 ) a larger relative improvement of scores over the baseline system , as well as a larger proportion of systems outperforming the baseline systems , which are a good indication that the field is progressing over the years .
For example , in the scoring variant of Task 1.1 , last year only 5 out of 20 systems ( i.e. 25 % of the systems ) were able to significantly outperform the baseline .
This year , 9 out 16 systems ( i.e. 56 % ) outperformed the same baseline .
Last year , the relative improvement of the winning submission with respect to the baseline system was 13 % , while this year the relative improvement is of 19 % .
Overall , the tables of results presented in Section 6.8 give a comprehensive view of the current state - of - the - art on the data sets used for this shared task , as well as indications on how much room there still is for improvement via figures from oracle methods .
As a result , people interested in contributing to research in these machine translation quality estimation tasks will be able to do so in a principled way , with clearly established state - ofthe - art levels and straightforward means of comparison .
Summary
As in previous incarnations of this workshop we carried out an extensive manual and automatic evaluation of machine translation performance , and we used the human judgements that we collected to validate automatic metrics of translation quality .
We also refined last year 's quality estimation task , asking for methods that predict sentencelevel post-editing effort and time , rank translations from alternative systems , and pinpoint words in the output that are more likely to be wrong .
As in previous years , all data sets generated by this workshop , including the human judgments , system translations and automatic scores , are publicly available for other researchers to analyze .
A Pairwise System Comparisons by Human Judges Tables 21-30 show pairwise comparisons between systems for each language pair .
The numbers in each of the tables ' cells indicate the percentage of times that the system in that column was judged to be better than the system in that row , ignoring ties .
Bolding indicates the winner of the two systems .
Because there were so many systems and data conditions the significance of each pairwise comparison needs to be quantified .
We applied the Sign Test to measure which comparisons indicate genuine differences ( rather than differences that are attributable to chance ) .
In the following tables indicates statistical significance at p ? 0.10 , ? indicates statistical significance at p ? 0.05 , and ? indicates statistical significance at p ? 0.01 , according to the Sign Test .
Each table contains final rows showing how likely a system would win when paired against a randomly selected system ( the expected win ratio score ) and the rank range according bootstrap resampling ( p ? 0.05 ) .
Gray lines separate clusters based on non-overlapping rank ranges .
score .60 .58 .57 .56 .54 .54 .53 .48 .45 .32 .29 rank 1 2-3 2-4 3-5 4-7 5-7 6-7 8 9 10 11 score .58 .57 .56 .52 .50 .50 .49 .48 .47 .45 .45 .38 rank 1-2 1 - 2 3 4 5-7 5-7 5-8 7-9 8-9 10-11 10 - 11 12 Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Statistics for the training and test sets used in the translation task .
The number of words and the number of distinct words ( case-insensitive ) is based on the provided tokenizer .
Figure 2 : 2 Figure2 : Screenshot of the Appraise interface used in the human evaluation campaign .
The annotator is presented with a source segment , a reference translation , and the outputs of five systems ( anonymized and randomly - ordered ) and has to rank these according to their translation quality , ties are allowed .
For technical reasons , annotators on Amazon 's Mechanical Turk received all three ranking tasks for a single HIT on a single page , one upon the other .
Figure 3 : 3 Figure 3 : In this screen , the annotator is expected to correct the MT output given only the context of at most two neighbouring machine - translated sentences .
Figure 4 : 4 Figure 4 : In this screen , the annotator is expected to validate the monolingual edit , correcting it if necessary .
The annotator is expected to add the prefix ' OK : ' if the correction was more or less cosmetic .
Number of source sentences with the given number of distinct reference translations .
Figure 5 : Figure 6 : 56 Figure 5 : Correlation of BLEU and WMT13 manual ranks for English ?
Czech translation
Figures
Figure 7 : Figure 8 : 78 Figure 7 : Projections from Figure 5 of BLEU and WMT13 manual ranks for English ?
Czech translation
Table 2 contains more detail .
Table 2 : 2 Amount of data collected in the WMT13 manual evaluation .
The final two rows report summary information from the previous two workshops .
LANGUAGE PAIR WMT11 WMT12 WMT13 WMT13 r WMT13 m Czech-English 0.400 0.311 0.244 0.342 0.279 English - Czech 0.460 0.359 0.168 0.408 0.075 German-English 0.324 0.385 0.299 0.443 0.324 English - German 0.378 0.356 0.267 0.457 0.239 Spanish-English 0.494 0.298 0.277 0.415 0.295 English - Spanish 0.367 0.254 0.206 0.333 0.249 French-English 0.402 0.272 0.275 0.405 0.321 English - French 0.406 0.296 0.231 0.434 0.237 Russian-English - - 0.278 0.315 0.324 English-Russian - - 0.243 0.416 0.207
Table 3 : 3 ? scores measuring inter-annotator agreement .
The WMT13r and WMT13 m columns provide breakdowns for researcher annotations and MTurk annotations , respectively .
See Table4 for corresponding intra-annotator agreement scores .
Table 4 : 4 ? scores measuring intra-annotator agreement , i.e. , self - consistency of judges , across for the past few years of the human evaluation .
The WMT13r and WMT13 m columns provide breakdowns for researcher annotations and MTurk annotations , respectively .
The perfect inter-annotator agreement for Spanish - English is a result of there being very little data for that language pair .
thresh .
rankings ? 0.5 16,605 0.234 0.6 9,999 0.337 0.7 3,219 0.360 0.8 1,851 0.395 0.9 849 0.336
Table 5 : 5 Agreement as a function of threshold for Turkers on the Russian - English task .
The threshold is the percentage of controls a Turker must pass for her rankings to be accepted .
Table 6 : 6 Official results for the WMT13 translation task .
Systems are ordered by the expected win score .
Lines between systems indicate clusters according to bootstrap resampling at p-level p ? .05 .
This method is also used to determine the range of ranks into which system falls .
Systems with grey background indicate use of resources that fall outside the constraints provided for the shared task .
4 Understandability of English ?
Czech
For the English- to - Czech translation , we con- ducted a variation of the " understandability " test as introduced in WMT09 ( Callison - Burch et al. , 2009 ) and used in WMT10 .
In order to obtain additional reference translations , we conflated this test with post-editing .
The procedure was as fol- lows : 1 . Monolingual editing ( also called blind edit-ing ) .
The first annotator is given just the MT output and requested to correct it .
Given er- rors in MT outputs , some guessing of the original meaning is often inevitable and the annotators are welcome to try .
If unable , they can mark the sentences as incomprehensible .
2 . Review .
A second annotator is asked to validate the monolingual edit given both the source and reference translations .
Our in - structions specify three options : ( a) If the monolingual edit is an adequate translation and acceptably fluent Czech , confirm it without changes .
( b) If the monolingual edit is adequate but needs polishing , modify the sentence and prefix it with the label ' OK : '. ( c ) If the monolingual edit is wrong , cor- rect it .
You may start from the origi- nal unedited MT output , if that is eas- ier .
Avoid using the reference directly , prefer words from MT output whenever possible .
Table 7 : 7 Distribution of review statuses .
Occurrence GOOD ALMOST BAD EMPTY Total First 34.7 0.1 42.3 11.0 4082 Repeated 41.1 0.1 41.0 6.1 805 Overall 35.8 0.1 42.1 10.2 4887
Table 8 : 8 Annotator agreement when reviewing monolingual edits .
inter intra ALMOST treated separate as BAD as GOOD separate as BAD as GOOD Pairwise Comparisons Agreement 2690 56.0 0.270 ? 2690 67.9 0.351 2690 65.2 0.289 170 65.3 0.410 170 69.4 0.386 170 71.8 0.422
Table 12 : 12 Official results for the ranking variant of the WMT13 Quality Estimation Task 1.1 .
The winning submissions are indicated by a ?
( they are significantly better than all other submissions according to bootstrap resampling ( 10 k times ) with 95 % confidence intervals ) .
The systems in the gray area are not different from the baseline system at a statistically significant level according to the same test .
Oracle results that use human-references are also shown for comparison purposes .
System ID DeltaAvg Spearman ? ? CNGL SVRPLS ? DCU-SYMC alltypes SHEF FS 11.09 10.13 9.76 0.55 0.59 0.57 CNGL SVR 9.88 0.51 DCU-SYMC combine 9.84 0.59 CMU noB 8.98 0.57 SHEF FS - AL 8.85 0.50 Baseline bb17 SVR 8.52 0.46 CMU full 8.23 0.54 LIMSI 8.15 0.44 TCD-CNGL open 6.03 0.33 TCD -CNGL restricted 5.85 0.31 UMAC 2.74 0.11 Oracle HTER 16.38 1.00 Oracle HBLEU 15.74 0.93 System ID MAE RMSE ? SHEF FS 12.42 15.74 SHEF FS -AL 13.02 17.03 CNGL SVRPLS 13.26 16.82 LIMSI 13.32 17.22 DCU-SYMC combine 13.45 16.64 DCU-SYMC alltypes 13.51 17.14 CMU noB 13.84 17.46 CNGL SVR 13.85 17.28 FBK - UEdin extra 14.38 17.68 FBK - UEdin rand-svr 14.50 17.73 LORIA inctrain 14.79 18.34 Baseline bb17 SVR 14.81 18.22 TCD -CNGL open 14.81 19.00 LORIA inctraincont 14.83 18.17 TCD -CNGL restricted 15.20 19.59 CMU full 15.25 18.97 UMAC 16.97 21.94 Oracle HTER 0.00 0.00 Oracle HBLEU ( 1-HBLEU ) 16.85 19.72
Table
Table 14 : 14 Official results for the Task 1.2 of the WMT13 Quality Estimation shared task for German- English , using as metric Kendall 's ? with ties penalised .
The winning submissions are indicated by a ?.
Oracle results that use human-references are also shown for comparison purposes .
? DFKI logRegFss33 DFKI logRegFss24 0.31 0.28 CNGL SVRPLSF1 0.17 CNGL SVRF1 0.17 DCU CCG 0.15 UPC AQE+SEM +LM 0.11 UPC AQE+LeM+ALGPR +LM 0.10 DCU baseline + CCG 0.00 Baseline Random-ranks-with-ties -0.12 UMAC EBLEU -I -0.39 UMAC NB -LPR - 0.49 Oracle Human 1.00 Oracle BLEU ( margin 0.00 ) 0.19 Oracle BLEU ( margin 0.01 ) 0.05 Oracle METEOR -ex ( margin 0.00 ) 0.23 Oracle METEOR -ex ( margin 0.01 ) 0.06 English - Spanish System ID Kendall's ? with ties penalised ?
CNGL SVRPLSF1 CNGL SVRF1 0.15 0.13 DFKI logRegL2-411 0.09 DFKI logRegL2-431 0.04 UPC QQE+LeM+ALGPR +LM -0.03 UPC AQE+LeM+ALGPR +LM -0.06 CMU BLEUopt - 0.11 Baseline Random-ranks-with-ties -0.23 UMAC EBLEU-A -0.27 UMAC EBLEU -I -0.35 CMU cls - 0.63 Oracle Human 1.00 Oracle BLEU ( margin 0.00 ) 0.17 Oracle BLEU ( margin 0.02 ) - 0.06 Oracle METEOR -ex ( margin 0.00 ) 0.19 Oracle METEOR -ex ( margin 0.02 ) 0.05
Table 15 : 15 Official results for the Task 1.2 of the WMT13 Quality Estimation shared task for English - Spanish , using as metric Kendall 's ? with ties penalised .
The winning submissions are indicated by a ?.
Oracle results that use human-references are also shown for comparison purposes .
German-English System ID Kendall's ? with ties ignored Nr. of non-ties / Nr. of decisions ?
DFKI logRegFss33 DFKI logRegFss24 0.31 0.28 882/882 882/882 UPC AQE+SEM +LM 0.27 768/882 UPC AQE+LeM+ALGPR +LM 0.24 788/882 DCU CCG 0.18 862/882 CNGL SVRPLSF1 0.17 882/882 CNGL SVRF1 0.17 881/882 Baseline Random-ranks-with-ties 0.08 718/882 DCU baseline +CCG 0.01 874/882 UMAC NB-LPR 0.01 447/882 UMAC EBLEU -I -0.03 558/882 Oracle Human 1.00 882/882 Oracle BLEU ( margin 0.00 ) 0.22 859/882 Oracle BLEU ( margin 0.01 ) 0.27 728/882 Oracle METEOR -ex ( margin 0.00 ) 0.20 869/882 Oracle METEOR -ex ( margin 0.01 ) 0.24 757/882
Table 16 : 16 Official results for the Task 1.2 of the WMT13 Quality Estimation shared task for German- English , using as metric Kendall 's ? with ties ignored .
The winning submissions are indicated by a ?.
Oracle results that use human-references are also shown for comparison purposes .
English - Spanish System ID Kendall's ? with ties ignored Nr. of non-ties / Nr. of decisions ? CMU cls CNGL SVRPLSF1 0.23 0.16 192/633 632/633 CNGL SVRF1 0.13 631/633 DFKI logRegL2-411 0.13 610/633 UPC QQE+LeM+ALGPR +LM 0.11 554/633 UPC AQE+LeM+ALGPR +LM 0.08 554/633 UMAC EBLEU-A 0.07 430/633 DFKI logRegL2-431 0.04 633/633 Baseline Random-ranks-with-ties 0.03 507/633 UMAC EBLEU -I 0.02 407/633 CMU BLEUopt -0.11 633/633 Oracle Human 1.00 633/633 Oracle BLEU ( margin 0.00 ) 0.19 621/633 Oracle BLEU ( margin 0.02 ) 0.26 474/633 Oracle METEOR -ex ( margin 0.00 ) 0.25 623/633 Oracle METEOR -ex ( margin 0.02 ) 0.28 517/633
Table 17 : 17 Official results for the Task 1.2 of the WMT13 Quality Estimation shared task for English - Spanish , using as metric Kendall 's ? with ties ignored .
The winning submissions are indicated by a ?.
Oracle results that use human-references are also shown for comparison purposes .
Table 19 is that this trivial baseline is difficult to beat in terms of accuracy .
System ID MAE RMSE Pearson's r Spearman's ? ? FBK - UEDIN Extra 47.5 ? FBK - UEDIN Rand-SVR 47.9 CNGL SVR 49.2 82.6 86.7 90.4 0.65 0.66 0.67 0.75 0.74 0.76 CNGL SVRPLS 49.6 86.6 0.68 0.74 CMU slim 51.6 84.7 0.63 0.68 Baseline bb17 SVR 51.9 93.4 0.61 0.70 DFKI linear6 52.4 84.3 0.64 0.68 CMU full 53.6 92.2 0.58 0.60 DFKI pls8 53.6 88.3 0.59 0.67 TCD-DCU-CNGL SVM2 55.8 98.9 0.47 0.60 TCD-DCU-CNGL SVM1 55.9 99.4 0.48 0.60 SHEF FS 55.9 103.1 0.42 0.61 SHEF FS - AL 64.6 99.1 0.57 0.60 LIMSI elastic 70.6 114.4 0.58 0.64
However , considering our main metric - macro -
Table 18 : 18 Official results for the Task 1.3 of the WMT13 Quality Estimation shared - task .
The winning submissions are indicated by a ?
( they are significantly better than all other submissions according to bootstrap resampling ( 10 k times ) with 95 % confidence intervals ) .
The systems in the gray area are not different from the baseline system at a statistically significant level according to the same test .
Keep Change System ID Accuracy Prec. Recall F 1 Prec. Recall F 1 Macro F 1 ? LIG FS BIN ? LIG BOOST BIN CNGL GLM 0.74 0.74 0.70 0.79 0.78 0.76 0.86 0.88 0.86 0.82 0.56 0.83 0.57 0.80 0.47 0.43 0.37 0.31 0.48 0.45 0.38 0.65 0.64 0.59 UMAC NB 0.56 0.82 0.49 0.62 0.37 0.73 0.49 0.55 CNGL GLMd 0.71 0.74 0.93 0.82 0.51 0.19 0.28 0.55 UMAC CRF 0.71 0.72 0.98 0.83 0.49 0.04 0.07 0.45 Baseline ( one class ) 0.71 0.71 1.00 0.83 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.42
Table 19 : 19 Official results for Task 2 : binary classification on word level of the WMT13 Quality Estimation shared - task .
The winning submissions are indicated by a ?.System IDF 1 Keep F 1 Substitute F 1 Delete Micro-F 1 Macro-F 1 ? LIG FS MULT ? LIG ALL MULT UMAC NB 0.83 0.83 0.62 0.44 0.45 0.43 0.072 0.064 0.042 0.72 0.72 0.52 0.45 0.45 0.36 CNGL GLM 0.83 0.18 0.028 0.71 0.35 CNGL GLMd 0.83 0.14 0.034 0.72 0.34 UMAC CRF 0.83 0.04 0.012 0.71 0.29 Baseline ( one class ) 0.83 0.00 0.000 0.71 0.28
Table 20 : 20 Official results for Task 2 : multiclass classification on word level of the WMT13 Quality Estimation shared - task .
The winning submissions are indicated by a ?.
19 categorization with class- based and corpusbased keyword selection .
In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Computer and Information Sciences , ISCIS '05 , pages 606-615 , Berlin , Heidelberg .
Springer .
lation , StatMT ' 09 , pages 259 - 268 , Stroudsburg , PA , USA .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
? .26 ? ONLINE -B .50 -.46 ? .48 ? .47 ? .49 .44 ? .40 ? .39 ? .29 ? .27 ? MES .52 ? .54 ? -.49 .47 .44 ? .45 ? .42 ? .41 ? .27 ? .25 ? UEDIN .57 ? .52 ? .51 -.51 .48 ? .47 ? .42 ? .39 ? .28 ? .25 ? ONLINE -A .53 ? .53 ? .53 .49 -.48 .51 .44 ? .42 ? .31 ? .30 ? UEDIN-SYNTAX .57 ? .51 .56 ? .52 ? .52 -.51 .43 ? .41 ? .29 ? .26 ? CU-ZEMAN .56 ? .56 ? .55 ? .53 ? .49 .49 -.45 ? .42 ? .32 ? .29 ? CU-TAMCHYNA .62 ? .60 ? .58 ? .58 ? .56 ? .57 ? .55 ? -.46 ? .35 ? .32 ? DCU-FDA .68 ? .61 ? .59 ? .61 ? .58 ? .59 ? .58 ? .54 ? -.32 ? .32 ? JHU .75 ? .71 ? .73 ? .72 ? .69 ? .71 ? .68 ? .65 ? .68 ? -.46 ? SHEF - WPROA .74 ? .73 ? .75 ? .75 ? .70 ? .74 ? .71 ? .68 ? .68 ? .54 ? - UEDIN-HEAFIELD ONLINE-B MES UEDIN ONLINE-A UEDIN-SYNTAX CU-ZEMAN CU-TAMCHYNA DCU -FDA JHU SHEF -WPROA UEDIN -
Table 21 : 21
Head to head comparison , ignoring ties , for Czech-English systems BOJAR -.51 .47 ? .44 ? .42 ? .43 ? .48 .41 ? .37 ? .39 ? .38 ? .33 ? CU-DEPFIX .49 -.48 .42 ? .43 ? .41 ? .47 ? .42 ? .40 ? .40 ? .39 ? .34 ? ONLINE -B .53 ? .52 -.47 ? .44 ? .44 ? .44 ? .44 ? .44 ? .41 ? .36 ? .34 ? UEDIN .56 ? .58 ? .53 ? -.47 ? .47 ? .48 .45 ? .44 ? .42 ? .43 ? .38 ? CU-ZEMAN .58 ? .57 ? .56 ? .53 ? -.49 .49 .48 ? .46 ? .47 ? .47 ? .35 ? MES .57 ? .59 ? .56 ? .53 ? .51 -.50 .47 ? .46 ? .43 ? .44 ? .42 ? ONLINE -A .52 .53 ? .56 ? .52 .51 .50 -.52 .47 .47 ? .47 ? .46 ? CU - PHRASEFIX .59 ? .58 ? .56 ? .55 ? .52 ? .53 ? .48 -.49 .48 ? .49 .42 ? CU-TECTOMT .63 ? .60 ? .56 ? .56 ? .54 ? .54 ? .53 .51 -.46 ? .46 ? .40 ? COMMERCIAL -1 .61 ? .60 ? .59 ? .58 ? .53 ? .57 ? .53 ? .52 ? .54 ? -.49 .42 ? COMMERCIAL -2 .62 ? .61 ? .64 ? .57 ? .53 ? .56 ? .53 ? .51 .54 ? .51 -.43 ? SHEF - WPROA .67 ? .66 ? .66 ? .62 ? .65 ? .58 ? .54 ? .58 ? .60 ? .58 ? .57 ? CU - BOJAR CU-DEPFIX ONLINE -B UEDIN CU-ZEMAN MES ONLINE-A CU - PHRASEFIX CU-TECTOMT COMMERCIAL-1 COMMERCIAL-2 SHEF -WPROA CU -
Table 22 : 22
Head to head comparison , ignoring ties , for English - Czech systems
The traditional metrics task is evaluated in a separate paper ( Mach?ek and Bojar , 2013 ) .
http://statmt.org/wmt13/results.html
For more details see the XML test files .
The docid tag gives the source and the date for each document in the test set , and the origlang tag indicates the original source language . 4
http://www.yandex.com/
5
As of Fall 2011 , the proceedings of the European Parliament are no longer translated into all official languages .
Thanks to Herv ? Saint-Amand and Martin Popel for harvesting these entries .
7
https://github.com/cfedermann/Appraise
http://www.casmacat.eu/index.php?n=Workbench
http://www.umiacs.umd.edu/ ?snover / terp / and test datasets , but not all systems were the same , as different systems participate in WMT over the years .
http://casmacat.eu/
http://www.quest.dcs.shef.ac.uk/ 13 http://scikit-learn.org/
If the size | S | is not divisible by n , then the last quantile
Sn is assumed to contain the rest of the entries .
In real life applications this distinction matters .
Even if , from a computational perspective , it is as hard to get ?
close to ?1 as it is to get it close to 1 , knowing the sign is the difference between selecting the best or the worse translation .
http://www.languagetool.org/
http://asiya.lsi.upc.edu/
The two baselines are exactly the same , and therefore the comparison is meaningful .
http://statmt.org/wmt13/results.html
