title
Confidential Review Copy .
DO NOT DISTRIBUTE
abstract
This paper describes the UCSYNLP - Lab submission to WAT 2019 for Myanmar-English translation tasks in both direction .
We have used the neural machine translation systems with attention model and utilized the UCSY - corpus and ALT corpus .
In NMT with attention model , we use the word segmentation level as well as syllable segmentation level .
Especially , we made the UCSY - corpus to be cleaned in WAT 2019 .
Therefore , the UCSY corpus for WAT 2019 is not identical to those used in WAT 2018 .
Experiments show that the translation systems can produce the substantial improvements .
Confidential Review Copy .
DO NOT DISTRIBUTE .
Introduction
In recent years , Neural Machine Translation ( NMT ) ( Bahdanau et al. , 2015 ) as achieved stateof - the - art performance on various language pairs and often outperforming traditional Statistical Machine Translation ( SMT ) techniques .
Therefore , a lot of researchers have been attracted to investigate the machine translation based on neural methods .
This paper describes the NMT systems of UCSYNLP - Lab for the WAT 2019 evaluation .
We participated in Myanmar-English and English -Myanmar translations in both directions .
Although Myanmar sentences are clearly delimited by a sentence boundary maker but words or phrases are not always delimited by spaces .
In Myanmar language , words are composed of one or more syllables and syllables are composed of characters .
And syllables are not usually separated by white space .
Therefore , word segmentation and syllable segmentation are essential steps for machine translation systems .
Figure 1 describes the formation of Myanmar word and Myanmar syllable in one sentence .
Moreover , Myanmar language is one of the low resource languages and there are a few parallel corpus . .
It is necessary to be cleaned these corpus .
So , we made the UCSY - corpus to be cleaned , therefore , the UCSY corpus for WAT 2019 is not identical to those used in WAT 2018 .
To enhance the performance of the model , we tried NMT with attention model with word level as well as syllable level .
We employed NMT with attention model as our baseline model and built our translation system based on OpenNMT 1 open source toolkit .
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows : section 2 describes about the dataset .
Section 3 describes the experimental set up and results are presented in section 4 .
Finally , we conclude in section 5 .
Dataset
This section describes the dataset provided by WAT 2019 for the translation task .
The datasets for Myanmar-English translation tasks at WAT2019 consists of parallel corpora from two different domains , namely , the ALT corpus and UCSY corpus .
The ALT corpus is one part from the Asian Language Treebank ( ALT ) project ( Riza et al. , 2016 ) ALT corpus size is extremely small , so a larger out - of- domain corpus for the same language pair also known as the UCSY corpus is provided .
The UCSY corpus and a portion of the ALT corpus are used as training data , which are around 220,000 lines of sentences and phrases .
The development and test data are from the ALT corpus .
Therefore , the training data for Myanmar-English and English - Myanmar translation tasks is a mix domain data collected from different sources .
UCSY corpus was collected from bilingual sentences from various websites , and it contains some erroneous sentences , misspelled words , encoding problems and duplicate sentences .
Therefore , we decided to remove these useless data after WAT 2018 .
Therefore , these problems are corrected manually at WAT2019 task to improve the quality of Machine Translation by removing duplicate sentences , spell checking , and normalizing different encodings .
Experimental Setup
We adopted a neural machine translation ( NMT ) with attention mechanism as a baseline system and we used OpenNMT 1 ( Klein et al. , 2017 ) as the implementation of the baseline NMT systems .
Training Data
The UCSY corpus and a portion of the ALT corpus are used as training data , which are around 220,000 lines of sentences and phrases .
The development and test data are from the ALT corpus .
Therefore , the training data for Myanmar-English and English - Myanmar translation tasks is a mix domain data collected from different sources .
Tokenization
The collected raw sentences are not segmented correctly and some do not have almost no segmentation is essential for the quality improvement of Machine Translation .
We used UCSYNLP word segmenter ( Win Pa Pa and Ni Lar Thein , 2008 ) for Myanmar word segmentation and Myanmar syllable segmenter 2 for syllable segmentation .
UCSYNLP word segmenter is implemented a combined model , bigram and word juncture .
This segmenter works by longest matching and bigram method with a pre-segmented corpus of 50,000 words collected manually from Myanmar Text Books , Newspapers , and Journals .
The corpus is in Unicode encoding .
After segementing the Myanmar sentence by UCSYNLP word segmenter the " _ " from the result is removed and replaced with space .
Figure 2 shows the process of UCSYNLP word segmenter .
It is not able to segment when " ? " and " % " contains in Myanmar sentences .
Examples are shown in Figure 3 and For Myanmar syllable - based neural machine translation model , " sylbreak " is used to segment the Myanmar sentence into syllable level .
Syllable segmentation is an important preprocess for many natural language processing ( NLP ) such as romanization , transliteration and grapheme- tophoneme ( g2p ) conversion .
" sylbreak " is a syllable segmentation tool for Myanmar language ( Burmese ) text encoded with Unicode ( e.g. Myanmar3 , Padauk ) .
After segmenting the Myanmar sentence into syllable segmentation , the " | " from the result is removed and replaced with space and leading the trim process .
Figure 5 shows the process of syllable segmentation for Myanmar syllable - based NMT model .
3 shows the settings of network hyper-parameters for NMT models .
The basic architecture of the Encoder - Decoder model includes two recurrent neural networks ( RNNs ) .
A source recurrent neural network ( RNN ) encoder reads the source sentence x = ( x1 , ? , xi ) and encodes it into a sequence of hidden states h = ( h1 , ? , hi ) .
The target decoder is a recurrent neural network that generates a corresponding translation y = ( y1 , ? , yj ) based on the encoded sequence of hidden states h .
The encoder and decoder are join to train to produce the maximum log-probability of the correct translation .
In attention based encoder-decoder architecture , encoder uses a bi-directional recurrent unit that gets a better performance for long sentences .
Encoder encodes the annotation of each source word to summarize getting the preceding word and the following word .
Likewise , the decoder also becomes a GRU and each word yj is predicted based on a recurrent hidden state , the previously predicted word yj - 1 , and a context vector .
Unlike the previously encoder-decoder approach , the probability is conditioned on a distinct vector for each target word .
This context vector is obtained from the weighted sum of the annotations hk , which is computed through an alignment model jk .
Training is performed using stochastic gradient descent on a parallel corpus .
Experimental Results
Our systems are evaluated on the ALT test set using the evaluation metrics such as Bilingual Evaluation Understudy ( BLEU ) and Rank - based Intuitive Bilingual Evaluation Score ( RIBES ) .
Table 4 and Table 5 In Myanmar to English translation , wordbased NMT model outperforms Myanmar Syllable - based NMT model in terms of BLEU score and the RIBES score .
For Myanmar to English NMT system , word level segmentation NMT system performed much better than syllable level segmentation NMT system .
That is , nearly 4 BLEU scores .
However , Myanmar syllable - based NMT model gets higher score than word - based NMT in English to Myanmar translation .
Interestingly , there is little difference in scores of RIBES in Myanmar syllable - based NMT model for English to Myanmar translation .
For English to Myanmar NMT system , syllable level segmentation NMT system got the high BLEU scores that is nearly 6 BLEU scores .
Best scores among those of the experimental results are submitted in this description .
Conclusions
In this system description for WAT2019 , we submitted our NMT systems , which are NMT with attention .
We evaluated our systems on Myanmar-English and English -Myanmar translations at WAT 2019 .
In the future , we will collect the more parallel sentences to get a largesized MT corpus .
And we also intend to do more and more experiments with more recent evolutions of the translation models .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Formation of Myanmar sentence .
Figure 4 . 4 These sentences are segmented manually .
Figure 2 : 2 Figure 2 : The process of word level segmentation .
Figure 3 : 3 Figure 3 : Sentences that are manually segmented .
Figure 4 : 4 Figure 4 : Sentences that are manually segmented .
Figure 5 : 5 Figure 5 : The process of syllable level segmentation .
3.3 NMT with attentionOur NMT system is built upon NMT with attention model that links blocks of Long Short - Term Memory ( LSTM ) in an RNN .
We used open source OpenNMT .
The experiments were run on Tesla K80 GPU .
We trained the word- based NMT and Myanmar Syllable - based NMT .
Based on different parameter settings , the training time is
Table 1 : 1 Table 1 shows data statistics used for the experiments .
Statistics of Datasets .
Data File Name Number of Type Sentences TRAIN train.ucsy .[ my|en ] 208,638 train.alt.[my|en ]
17,965 DEV dev.alt.[ my|en ] 993 TEST tet.alt.[ my|en ] 1.007
Table 2 : 2 Table 2 shows the data about the training detail .
Training Details Information .
Domain Number of Word Myanmar Myanmar English Syllable tokens ALT 698,347 436,923 1,138,297 UCSY 2,966,666 2,255,630 6,455,588 Total 36,650,13 2,692,553 6,569,417
Table 3 : 3 Hyper-parameter of NMT models .
Hyper-parameter NMT models src vocab size 25,087 ( Word Level ) tgt vocab size 50,004 ( Word Level ) src vocab size 25,087 ( Syllable Level ) tgt vocab size 50,004 ( Syllable Level ) Number of 500 hidden units Encoder layer 2 Decoder layer 2 Learning rate 1.0 Dropout rate 0.3 Mini- batch size 64
Table 4 : 4 show the different evaluation metrics for Myanmar-English and English -Myanmar translation pairs .
We also investigated how segmentation level affects the MT performance in all experiments .
The experimental results reveal that word level segmentation can give better performance for Myanmar to English NMT with attention model while syllable level segmentation can give better performance for English to Myanmar NMT .
Myanmar to English Translation .
BLEU RIBES Word 19.64 0.707789 Syllable 15.96 0.657564 BLEU RIBES Word 14.84 0.697153 Syllable 20.86 0.698507
Table 5 : 5 : English to Myanmar Translation .
https://github.com/ye-kyaw-thu/sylbreak
