title
Improving Arabic-to-English Statistical Machine Translation by Reordering Post-verbal Subjects for Alignment
abstract
We study the challenges raised by Arabic verb and subject detection and reordering in Statistical Machine Translation ( SMT ) .
We show that post-verbal subject ( VS ) constructions are hard to translate because they have highly ambiguous reordering patterns when translated to English .
In addition , implementing reordering is difficult because the boundaries of VS constructions are hard to detect accurately , even with a state - of- the - art Arabic dependency parser .
We therefore propose to reorder VS constructions into SV order for SMT word alignment only .
This strategy significantly improves BLEU and TER scores , even on a strong large-scale baseline and despite noisy parses .
Introduction Modern Standard Arabic ( MSA ) is a morphosyntactically complex language , with different phenomena from English , a fact that raises many interesting issues for natural language processing and Arabic- to - English statistical machine translation ( SMT ) .
While comprehensive Arabic preprocessing schemes have been widely adopted for handling Arabic morphology in SMT ( e.g. , Sadat and Habash ( 2006 ) , Zollmann et al. ( 2006 ) , Lee ( 2004 ) ) , syntactic issues have not received as much attention by comparison ( Green et al. ( 2009 ) , Crego and Habash ( 2008 ) , Habash ( 2007 ) ) .
Arabic verbal constructions are particularly challenging since subjects can occur in pre-verbal ( SV ) , post-verbal ( VS ) or pro-dropped ( " null subject " ) constructions .
As a result , training data for learning verbal construction translations is split between the different constructions and their patterns ; and complex reordering schemas are needed in order to translate them into primarily pre-verbal subject languages ( SVO ) such as English .
These issues are particularly problematic in phrase - based SMT ( Koehn et al. , 2003 ) .
Standard phrase - based SMT systems memorize phrasal translation of verb and subject constructions as observed in the training bitext .
They do not capture any generalizations between occurrences in VS and SV orders , even for the same verbs .
In addition , their distance - based reordering models are not well suited to handling complex reordering operations which can include long distance dependencies , and may vary by context .
Despite these limitations , phrase - based SMT systems have achieved competitive results in Arabic-to - English benchmark evaluations .
1 However , error analysis shows that verbs are still often dropped or incorrectly translated , and subjects are split or garbled in translation .
This suggests that better syntactic modeling should further improve SMT .
We attempt to get a better understanding of translation patterns for Arabic verb constructions , particularly VS constructions , by studying their occurrence and reordering patterns in a handaligned Arabic - English parallel treebank .
Our analysis shows that VS reordering rules are not straightforward and that SMT should therefore benefit from direct modeling of Arabic verb subject translation .
In order to detect VS constructions , we use our state - of- the - art Arabic dependency parser , which is essentially the CATIBEX baseline in our subsequent parsing work in , and is further described there .
We show that VS subjects and their exact boundaries are hard to identify accurately .
Given the noise in VS detection , existing strategies for source-side reordering ( e.g. , Xia and McCord ( 2004 ) , Collins et al. ( 2005 ) , Wang et al. ( 2007 ) ) or using de - are not effective at this stage .
While these approaches have been successful for language pairs such as German- English for which syntactic parsers are more developed and relevant reordering patterns might be less ambiguous , their impact potential on Arabic- English translation is still unclear .
In this work , we focus on VS constructions only , and propose a new strategy in order to benefit from their noisy detection : for the word alignment stage only , we reorder phrases detected as VS constructions into an SV order .
Then , for phrase extraction , weight optimization and decoding , we use the original ( non- reordered ) text .
This approach significantly improves both BLEU and TER on top of strong medium and large-scale phrase - based SMT baselines .
VS reordering in gold Arabic-English translation
We use the manually word-aligned parallel Arabic- English Treebank ( LDC2009E82 ) to study how Arabic VS constructions are translated into English by humans .
Given the gold Arabic syntactic parses and the manual Arabic- English word alignments , we can determine the gold reorderings for SV and VS constructions .
We extract VS representations from the gold constituent parses by deterministic conversion to a simplified dependency structure , CATiB ( Habash and Roth , 2009 ) ( see Section 3 ) .
We then check whether the English translations of the Arabic verb and the Arabic subject occur in the same order as in Arabic ( monotone ) or not ( inverted ) .
Table 1 summarizes the reordering patterns for each category .
As expected , 98 % of Arabic SV are translated in a monotone order in English .
For VS constructions , the picture is surprisingly more complex .
The monotone VS translations are mostly explained by changes to passive voice or to non-verbal constructions ( such as nominalization ) in the English translation .
In addition , Table 1 shows that verb subjects occur more frequently in VS order ( 70 % ) than in SV order ( 30 % ) .
These numbers do not include prodropped ( " null subject " ) constructions .
Arabic VS construction detection Even if the SMT system had perfect knowledge of VS reordering , it has to accurately detect VS constructions and their spans in order to apply the reordering correctly .
For that purpose , we use our state - of- ther - art parsing model , which is essentially the CATIBEX baseline model in , and whose details we summarize next .
We train a syntactic dependency parser , MaltParser v1.3 with the Nivre " eager " algorithm ( Nivre , 2003 ; Nivre et al. , 2006 ; Nivre , 2008 ) on the training portion of the Penn Arabic Treebank part 3 v3.1 , hereafter PATB3 ( Maamouri et al. , 2008 ; Maamouri et al. , 2009 ) .
The training / development split is the same as in Zitouni et al . ( 2006 ) .
We convert the PATB3 representation into the succinct CATiB format , with 8 dependency relations and 6 POS tags , which we then extend to a set of 44 tags using regular expressions of the basic POS and the normalized surface word form , similarly to , following Habash and Roth ( 2009 ) .
We normalize Alif Maqsura to Ya , and Hamzated Alifs to bare Alif , as is commonly done in Arabic SMT .
For analysis purposes , we evaluate our subject and verb detection on the development part of PATB3 using gold POS tags .
There are various ways to go about it .
We argue that combined detection statistics of constructions of verbs and their subjects ( VATS ) , for which we achieve an F-score of 74 % , are more telling for the task at hand .
2
These scores take into account the spans of both the subject and the specific verb it belongs to , and potentially reorder with .
We also provide statistics of VS detection separately ( F-score 63 % ) , since we only handle VS here .
This low score can be explained by the difficulty in detecting the postverbal subject 's end boundary , and the correct verb the subject belongs to .
The SV construction scores are higher , presumably since the pre-verbal subject 's end is bounded by the verb it belongs to .
See Table 2 . Although not directly comparable , our VS scores are similar to those of Green et al . ( 2009 ) .
Their VS detection technique with conditional random fields ( CRF ) is different from ours in bypassing full syntactic parsing , and in only detecting maximal ( non-nested ) subjects of verb-initial clauses .
Additionally , they use a different training / test split of the PATB data ( parts 1 , 2 and 3 ) .
They report 65.9 % precision and 61.3 % F-score .
Note that a closer score comparison should take into account their reported verb detection accuracy of 98.1 % .
4 . using mapping from a to a , get corresponding word alignment wa = unreorder ( wa ) for the original sentence pair ( a , e )
Experiment set-up
We use the open-source Moses toolkit to build two phrase - based SMT systems trained on two different data conditions : ? medium -scale the bitext consists of 12 M words on the Arabic side ( LDC2007E103 ) .
The language model is trained on the English side of the large bitext .
? large-scale the bitext consists of several newswire LDC corpora , and has 64 M words on the Arabic side .
The language model is trained on the English side of the bitext augmented with Gigaword data .
Except from this difference in training data , the two systems are identical .
They use a standard phrase - based architecture .
The parallel corpus is word-aligned using the GIZA ++ ( Och and Ney , 2003 ) , which sequentially learns word alignments for the IBM1 , HMM , IBM3 and IBM4 models .
The resulting alignments in both translation directions are intersected and augmented using the grow-diag-final - and heuristic .
Phrase translations of up to 10 words are extracted in the Moses phrase-table .
We apply statistical significance tests to prune unreliable and score remaining phrase - table entries ( Chen et al. , 2009 ) .
We use a 5 - gram language model with modified Kneser - Ney smoothing .
Feature weights are tuned to maximize BLEU on the NIST MT06 test set .
For all systems , the English data is tokenized using simple punctuation - based rules .
The Arabic side is segmented according to the Arabic Treebank ( PATB3 ) tokenization scheme ( Maamouri et al. , 2009 ) using the MADA + TOKAN morphological analyzer and tokenizer ( Habash and Rambow , 2005 ) . MADA - produced Arabic lemmas are used for word alignment .
Results
We evaluate translation quality using both BLEU ( Papineni et al. , 2002 ) and TER ( Snover et al. , 2006 ) scores on three standard evaluation test sets from the NIST evaluations , which yield more than 4400 test sentences with 4 reference translations .
On this large data set , our VS reordering method remarkably yields statistically significant improvements in BLEU and TER on the medium and large SMT systems at the 99 % confidence level ( Table 3 ) .
Results per test set are reported in Table 4 . TER scores are improved in all 10 test configurations , and BLEU scores are improved in 8 out of the 10 configurations .
Results on the MT08 test set show that improvements are obtained both on newswire and on web text as measured by TER ( but not BLEU score on the web section . )
It is worth noting that consistent improvements are obtained even on the large-scale system , and that both baselines are full-fledged systems , which include lexicalized reordering and large 5 - gram language models .
Analysis shows that our VS reordering technique improves word alignment coverage ( yielding 48 k and 330 k additional links on the medium and large scale systems respectively ) .
This results in larger phrase-tables which improve translation quality .
Related work
To the best of our knowledge , the only other approach to detecting and using Arabic verb-subject constructions for SMT is that of Green et al . ( 2009 ) ( see Section 3 ) , which failed to improve Arabic- English SMT .
In contrast with our reordering approach , they integrate subject span information as a log-linear model feature which encour-Table 3 : Evaluation on all test sets : on the total of 4432 test sentences , improvements are statistically significant at the 99 % level using bootstrap resampling ( Koehn , 2004 ) system BLEU r4n4 ( % ) TER ( % ) medium baseline large baseline 51.45 42.45 + VS reordering 51.70 ( + 0.25 ) 42.21 ( - 0.24 ) ages a phrase - based SMT decoder to use phrasal translations that do not break subject boundaries .
Syntactically motivated reordering for phrasebased SMT has been more successful on language pairs other than Arabic- English , perhaps due to more accurate parsers and less ambiguous reordering patterns than for Arabic VS .
For instance , Collins et al . ( 2005 ) apply six manually defined transformations to German parse trees which improve German-English translation by 0.4 BLEU on the Europarl task .
Xia and McCord ( 2004 ) learn reordering rules for French to English translations , which arguably presents less syntactic distortion than Arabic- English .
Zhang et al. ( 2007 ) limit reordering to decoding for Chinese - English SMT using a lattice representation .
Cherry ( 2008 ) uses dependency parses as cohesion constraints in decoding for French - English SMT .
For Arabic- English phrase - based SMT , the impact of syntactic reordering as preprocessing is less clear .
Habash ( 2007 ) proposes to learn syntactic reordering rules targeting Arabic- English word order differences and integrates them as deterministic preprocessing .
He reports improvements in BLEU compared to phrase - based SMT limited to monotonic decoding , but these improvements do not hold with distortion .
Instead of applying reordering rules deterministically , Crego and Habash ( 2008 ) use a lattice input to represent alternate word orders which improves a ngram-based SMT system .
But they do not model VS constructions explicitly .
Most previous syntax - aware word alignment models were specifically designed for syntaxbased SMT systems .
These models are often bootstrapped from existing word alignments , and could therefore benefit from our VS reordering approach .
For instance , Fossum et al. ( 2008 ) report improvements ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 BLEU on Arabic translation by learning to delete alignment ( - 0.19 ) links if they degrade their syntax - based translation system .
Departing from commonly - used alignment models , Hermjakob ( 2009 ) aligns Arabic and English content words using pointwise mutual information , and in this process indirectly uses English sentences reordered into VS order to collect cooccurrence counts .
The approach outperforms GIZA ++ on a small -scale translation task , but the impact of reordering alone is not evaluated .
Conclusion and future work
We presented a novel method for improving overall SMT quality using a noisy syntactic parser : we use these parses to reorder VS constructions into SV for word alignment only .
This approach increases word alignment coverage and significantly improves BLEU and TER scores on two strong SMT baselines .
In subsequent work , we show that matrix ( mainclause ) VS constructions are reordered much more frequently than non-matrix VS , and that limiting reordering to matrix VS constructions for word alignment further improves translation quality ( Carpuat et al. , 2010 ) .
In the future , we plan to improve robustness to parsing errors by using not just one , but multiple subject boundary hypotheses .
We will also investigate the integration of VS reordering in SMT decoding .
Table 1 : 1 How are Arabic SV and VS translated in the manually word-aligned Arabic- English parallel treebank ?
We check whether V and S are trans - lated in a " monotone " or " inverted " order for all VS and SV constructions .
" Overlap " represents instances where translations of the Arabic verb and subject have some English words in common , and are not monotone nor inverted .
gold reordering all verbs % SV monotone 2588 98.2 SV inverted 15 0.5 SV overlap 35 1.3 SV total 2638 100 VS monotone 1700 27.3 VS inverted 4033 64.7 VS overlap 502 8.0 VS total 6235 100 pendency parses as cohesion constraints in decod- ing ( e.g. , Cherry ( 2008 ) ; Bach et al. ( 2009 ) )
