title
Enriching Entity Translation Discovery using Selective Temporality
abstract
This paper studies named entity translation and proposes " selective temporality " as a new feature , as using temporal features may be harmful for translating " atemporal " entities .
Our key contribution is building an automatic classifier to distinguish temporal and atemporal entities then align them in separate procedures to boost translation accuracy by 6.1 % .
Introduction Named entity translation discovery aims at mapping entity names for people , locations , etc. in source language into their corresponding names in target language .
As many new named entities appear every day in newspapers and web sites , their translations are non-trivial yet essential .
Early efforts of named entity translation have focused on using phonetic feature ( called PH ) to estimate a phonetic similarity between two names ( Knight and Graehl , 1998 ; Li et al. , 2004 ; Virga and Khudanpur , 2003 ) .
In contrast , some approaches have focused on using context feature ( called CX ) which compares surrounding words of entities ( Fung and Yee , 1998 ; Diab and Finch , 2000 ; Laroche and Langlais , 2010 ) .
Recently , holistic approaches combining such similarities have been studied ( Shao and Ng , 2004 ; You et al. , 2010 ; Kim et al. , 2011 ) .
( Shao and Ng , 2004 ) rank translation candidates using PH and CX independently and return results with the highest average rank .
( You et al. , 2010 ) compute initial translation scores using PH and iteratively update the scores using relationship feature ( called R ) .
( Kim et al. , 2011 ) boost You 's approach by additionally leveraging CX .
More recent approaches consider temporal feature ( called T ) of entities in two corpora ( Klementiev and Roth , 2006 ; Tao et al. , 2006 ; Kim et al. , 2012 ) .
T is computed using frequency vectors for entities and combined with PH ( Klementiev and Roth , 2006 ; Tao et al. , 2006 ) . ) extend Tao 's approach by iteratively updating overall similarities using R. ( Kim et al. , 2012 ) holistically combine all the features : PH , CX , T , and R .
However , T used in previous approaches is a good feature only if temporal behaviors are " symmetric " across corpora .
In contrast , Figure 1 illustrates asymmetry , by showing the frequencies of " Usain Bolt , " a Jamaican sprinter , and " Hillary Clinton , " an American politician , in comparable news articles during the year 2008 .
The former is mostly mentioned in the context of some temporal events , e.g. , Beijing Olympics , while the latter is not .
In such case , as Hillary Clinton is a famous female leader , she may be associated with other Chinese female leaders in Chinese corpus , while such association is rarely observed in English corpus , which causes asymmetry .
That is , Hillary Clinton is " atemporal , " as Figure 1 ( b ) shows , such that using such dissimilarity against deciding this pair as a correct translation would be harmful .
In clear contrast , for Usain Bolt , similarity of temporal dis-tributions in Figure 1 ( a ) is a good feature for concluding this pair as a correct one .
To overcome such problems , we propose a new notion of " selective temporality " ( called this feature ST to distinguish from T ) to automatically distinguish temporal and atemporal entities .
Toward this goal , we design a classifier to distinguish temporal entities from atemporal entities , based on which we align temporal projections of entity graphs for the temporal ones and the entire entity graphs for the atemporal ones .
We also propose a method to identify the optimal window size for temporal entities .
We validate this " selective " use of temporal features boosts the accuracy by 6.1 % .
Preliminaries
Our approach follows a graph alignment framework proposed in ( You et al. , 2010 ) .
Our graph alignment framework consists of 4 steps .
Step 1 : Graph Construction
We first build a graph G = ( V , E ) from each language corpus , where V is a set of entities ( nodes ) and E is a set of co-occurrence relationships ( unweighted edges ) between entities .
We consider entities occurring more than ? times as nodes and entity pairs co-occurring more than ? times as edges .
To identify entities , we use a CRF - based named entity tagger ( Finkel et al. , 2005 ) and a Chinese word breaker ( Gao et al. , 2003 ) for English and Chinese corpora , respectively .
Step 2 : Initialization Given two graphs G e = ( V e , E e ) and G c = ( V c , E c ) , we initialize | V e |- by -|V c | initial similarity matrix R 0 using PH and CX for every pair ( e , c ) where e ?
V e and c ?
V c . For PH , we use a variant of Edit-Distance ( You et al. , 2010 ) between English entity and a romanized representation of Chinese entity called Pinyin .
For CX , the context similarity is computed based on entity context which is defined as a set of words near to the entity ( we ignore some words such as stop words and other entities ) .
We compute similarity of the most frequent 20 words for each entity using a variant of Jaccard index .
To integrate two similarity scores , we adopt an average as a composite function .
We finally compute initial similarity scores for all pairs ( e , c ) where e ?
V e and c ?
V c , and build the initial similarity matrix R 0 .
Step 3 : Reinforcement
We reinforce R 0 by leveraging R and obtain a converged matrix R ? using the following model : R t+1 ( i , j ) = ?R 0 ( i , j ) + ( 1 ? ? ) ? ( u , v ) k ?B t ( i , j , ? ) R t ( u , v ) 2 k This model is a linear combination of ( a ) the initial similarity R 0 ( i , j ) of entity pair ( i , j ) ?
V e ? V c and ( b ) the similarities R t ( u , v ) of their matched neighbors ( u , v ) ?
V e ? V c where t indicates iteration , B t ( i , j , ? ) is an ordered set of the matched neighbors , and k is the rank of the matched neighbors .
? is the coefficient for balancing two terms .
However , as we cannot assure the correctly matched neighbors ( u , v ) , a chicken - and - egg dilemma , we take advantage of the current similarity R t to estimate the next similarity R t+1 .
Algorithm 1 describes the process of matching the neighbors where N ( i ) and N ( j ) are the sets of neighbor nodes of i ?
V e and j ?
V c , respectively , and H is a priority queue sorting the matched pairs in non-increasing order of similarities .
To guarantee that the neighbors are correctly matched , we use only the matches such that R t ( u , v ) ? ?.
Algorithm 1 B t ( i , j , ? ) 1 : M ? {} ; H ? {} 2 : ?u ? N ( i ) , ?v ? N ( j) H.push ( u , v ) such that R t ( u , v ) ? ? 3 : while H is not empty do 4 : ( u , v ) ? H.pop ( ) 5 : if neither u nor v are matched yet then 6 : M ? M ? {( u , v ) } 7 : end if 8 : end while 9 : return M
Step 4 : Extraction From R ? , we finally extract one - to - one matches by using simple greedy approach of three steps : ( 1 ) choosing the pair with the highest similarity score ; ( 2 ) removing the corresponding row and column from R ? ; ( 3 ) repeating ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) until the matching score is not less than a threshold ?.
Entity Translation Discovery using Selective Temporality Overall Framework :
We propose our framework by putting together two separate procedures for temporal and atemporal entities to compute the overall similarity matrix R We first build two temporal graphs from the corpora within every time window , optimized in Section 3.1 .
We then compute the reinforced matrix R ? s obtained from the window starting at the timestamp s.
To keep the best match scores among all windows , we update R using the best similarity among ?s , R ? s . we then extract the candidate translation pairs M ours by running step 4 .
As there can exist atemporal entities in M ours , we classify them ( Section 3.2 ) .
Specifically , we build two entire graphs and compute R ? .
We then distinguish temporal entities from atemporal ones using our proposed metric for each matched pair ( i , j ) ?
M ours and , if the pair is atemporal , R ( i , j ) is updated as the atemporal similarity R ? ( i , j ) .
From the final matrix R , we extract the matched pairs by running step 4 with R once again .
Projecting Graph for Temporal Entities
We first project graphs temporally to improve translation quality for temporal entities .
As the optimal projection would differ across entities , we generate many projected graphs by shifting time window over all periods , and then identify the best window for each entity .
The rest of this section describes how we set the right window size w .
Though each entity may have its own optimal w , we find optimizing for each entity may negatively influence on considering relationships with entities of different window sizes .
Thus , we instead find the optimal window size ? to maximize the global " symmetry " of the given two graphs .
We now define " symmetry " with respect to the truth translation pair M .
We note it is infeasible to assume we have M during translation , and will later relax to consider how M can be approximated .
Given a set of graph pairs segmented by the shifted windows { ( G ( 0 , w ) e , G ( 0 , w ) c ) , ? ? ? , ( G ( s , s +w ) e , G ( s , s +w ) c ) , ( G ( s+? s , s+?s+w ) e , G ( s+? s , s+?s+w ) c ) , ? ? ? } , where s is the time-stamp , our goal is to find the window size ?
maximizing the average symmetry S of graph pairs : ? = arg max ?w ( ? s S ( G ( s , s +w ) e , G ( s , s+w ) c ; M ) N ) Given M , symmetry S can be defined for ( 1 ) node and ( 2 ) edge respectively .
We first define the node symmetry S n as follows :
We finally define the symmetry S as the weighted sum of S n and S e with parameter ?
( empirically tuned to 0.8 in our experiment ) .
S( G e , G c ; M ) = ?S n ( G e , G c ; M ) + ( 1 ? ?) S e ( G e , G c ; M ) However , as it is infeasible to assume we have the truth translation pair M , we approximate M using intermediate translation results M ours computed at step 4 .
To insert only true positive pairs in M ours , we set threshold higher than the optimized value from the step 4 .
We found out that symmetry from M ours closely estimates that from M : S( G e , G c ; M ) ?
S( G e , G c ; M ours )
Specifically , observe from Table 1 that , given a manually built ground - truth set M g ?
M as described in Section 4.1 , S( G e , G c ; M ours ) returns the best symmetry value in two weeks for person entities , which is expectedly the same as the result of S( G e , G c ; M g ) .
This suggests that we can use M ours for optimizing window size .
Building Classifier
We then classify temporal / atemporal entities .
As a first step , we observe their characteristics :
Temporal entities have peaks in the frequency distribution of both corpora and these peaks are aligned , while such distribution of atemporal entities are more uniform and less aligned .
Based on these observations , we identify the following criteria for temporal entities : ( 1 ) Their two distributions m in English corpus and n in Chinese corpus should have aligned peaks .
( 2 ) Frequencies at the peaks are the higher the better .
For the first criterion , we first normalize the two vectors m and n since two corpora have different scales , i.e. , different number of documents .
We then calculate the inner product of the two vectors x = ? m , n? , such that this aggregated distribution x peaks , only if both m and n peak at the same time .
For the second criterion , we have a spectrum of option from taking the frequencies at all peaks in one extreme , to taking only the maximum frequency in another extreme .
A metric representing such a spectrum is p-norm , which represents sum when p = 1 and maximum when p = ?.
We empirically tune the right balance to distinguish temporal and atemporal entities , which turns out to be p = 2.2 .
Overall , we define a metric d( m , n ) which satisfies both criteria as follow : d( m , n ) = ( n ? i=1 ( mi ni ) p
Experimental Evaluation
Experimental Settings
We obtained comparable corpora from English and Chinese Gigaword Corpora ( LDC2009T13 and LDC2009T27 ) published by the Xinhua News Agency during the year 2008 .
From them , we extracted person entities and built two graphs , G e = ( V e , E e ) and G c = ( V c , E c ) by setting ? = 20 which was used in ( Kim et al. , 2011 ) .
Next , we built a ground truth translation pair set M g for person entities .
We first selected 500 person names randomly from English corpus .
We then hired a Chinese annotator to translate them into their Chinese names .
Among them , only 201 person names were matched to our Chinese corpus .
We used all such pairs to identify the best parameters and compute the evaluation measures .
We implemented and compared the following approaches denoted as the naming convention of listing of the used features in a parenthesis ( ) : ? ( PH + R ) in ( You et al. , 2010 ) . ? ( PH + CX + R ) in ( Kim et al. , 2011 ) . ? ( PH + CX + R+T ) in ( Kim et al. , 2012 ) . ? ( PH + CX + R+ST ) :
This is our approach .
We evaluated the effectiveness of our new approach using four measures : MRR , precision , recall , and F1 - score , where MRR ( Voorhees , 2001 ) is the average of the reciprocal ranks of the query results defined as follows : MRR = 1 | Q| ? ( u, v ) ?Q 1 rank ( u, v ) , where Q is a set of ground - truth matched pairs ( u , v ) such that u ?
V e and v ?
V c , and rank ( u , v ) is the rank of R ( u , v ) among all R ( u, w ) 's such that w ?
V c .
We performed a 5 - fold cross validation by dividing ground truth into five groups .
We used four groups to training the parameters to maximize F1 - scores , used the remaining group as a test-set using trained parameters , and computed average of five results .
( bold numbers indicate the best performance for each metric . )
Experimental Results
Effect of window size
We first validated the effectiveness of our approach for various window sizes ( Table 2 ) .
Observe that it shows the best performance in two weeks for MRR and F1 measures .
Interestingly , this result also corresponds to our optimization result ? of Table 1 in Section 3.1 .
Overall performance
Table 3 shows the results of four measures .
Observe that ( PH + CX + R+T ) and ( PH + CX + R+ST ) outperform the others in all our settings .
We can also observe the effect of selective temporality , which maximizes the symmetry between two graphs as shown in outperforms ( PH + CX + R+T ) by 6.1 % .
These improvements were statistically significant according to the Student 's t-test at P < 0.05 level .
Figure 2 shows representative translation examples .
All approaches found famous entities such as " Hu Jintao , " a former leader of China , but ( PH + CX + R ) failed to find translation of lesser known entities , such as " Kim Yong Nam . "
Using temporal features help both ( PH + CX + R+T ) and ( PH + CX + R+ST ) identify the right translation , as Kim 's temporal occurrence is strong and symmetric in both corpora .
In contrast , ( PH + CX + R+T ) failed to find the translation of " Karzai " , the president of Afghanistan , as it only appears weakly and transiently during a short period time , for which only ( PH + CX + R+ST ) applying varying sizes of window per entity is effective .
Conclusion
This paper validated that considering temporality selectively is helpful for improving the translation quality .
We developed a classifier to distinguish temporal / atemporal entities and our proposed method outperforms the state - of - the - art approach by 6.1 % .
Figure 1 : Illustration on temporality al. , 2006 ; Kim et al. , 2012 ) .
T is computed using frequency vectors for entities and combined with PH ( Klementiev and Roth , 2006 ; Tao et al. , 2006 ) .) extend Tao 's approach by iteratively updating overall similarities using R. ( Kim et al. , 2012 ) holistically combine all the features : PH , CX , T , and R.However , T used in previous approaches is a good feature only if temporal behaviors are " symmetric " across corpora .
In contrast , Figure1illustrates asymmetry , by showing the frequencies of " Usain Bolt , " a Jamaican sprinter , and " Hillary Clinton , " an American politician , in comparable news articles during the year 2008 .
The former is mostly mentioned in the context of some temporal events , e.g. , Beijing Olympics , while the latter is not .
In such case , as Hillary Clinton is a famous female leader , she may be associated with other Chinese female leaders in Chinese corpus , while such association is rarely observed in English corpus , which causes asymmetry .
That is , Hillary Clinton is " atemporal , " as Figure1 ( b ) shows , such that using such dissimilarity against deciding this pair as a correct translation would be harmful .
In clear contrast , for Usain Bolt , similarity of temporal dis -
