title
Compositional generalization by factorizing alignment and translation
abstract
Standard methods in deep learning for natural language processing fail to capture the compositional structure of human language that allows for systematic generalization outside of the training distribution .
However , human learners readily generalize in this way , e.g. by applying known grammatical rules to novel words .
Inspired by work in cognitive science suggesting a functional distinction between systems for syntactic and semantic processing , we implement a modification to an existing approach in neural machine translation , imposing an analogous separation between alignment and translation .
The resulting architecture substantially outperforms standard recurrent networks on the SCAN dataset , a compositional generalization task , without any additional supervision .
Our work suggests that learning to align and to translate in separate modules may be a useful heuristic for capturing compositional structure .
Introduction
A crucial property underlying the expressive power of human language is its systematicity ( Lake et al. , 2017 ; Fodor and Pylyshyn , 1988 ) : syntactic or grammatical rules allow arbitrary elements to be combined in novel ways , making the number of sentences possible in a language to be exponential in the number of its basic elements .
Recent work has shown that standard deep learning methods in natural language processing fail to capture this important property : when tested on unseen combinations of known elements , standard models fail to generalize ( Lake and Loula et al. , 2018 ; Bastings et al. , 2018 ) .
It has been suggested that this failure represents a major deficiency of current deep learning models , especially when they are compared to human learners ( Marcus , 2018 ; Lake et al. , 2017 .
From a statistical - learning perspective , this failure is quite natural .
The neural networks trained on compositional generalization tasks fail to generalize because they have memorized biases that do indeed exist in the training set .
These tasks require networks to make an out-of- domain ( o.o.d. ) extrapolation ( Marcus , 2018 ) , rather than merely interpolate according to the assumption that training and testing data are independent and identically distributed ( i.i.d. ) .
To the extent that humans can perform well on certain kinds of o.o.d. tests , they must be utilizing inductive biases that are lacking in current deep learning models ( Battaglia et al. , 2018 ) .
It has long been suggested that the human capacity for systematic generalization is linked to mechanisms for processing syntax , and their functional separation from the meanings of individual words ( Chomsky , 1957 ; Fodor and Pylyshyn , 1988 ) .
In this work , we take inspiration from this idea and explore operationalizing it as an inductive bias in an existing neural network architecture .
First , we notice a connection between syntactic structure and the correct alignment of words in the source sequence to meanings in the target .
In our model , alignment is accomplished with an attention mechanism ( Bahdanau et al. , 2015 ) that determines the relevance of each word in the source to the translation of the next word in the target .
This process must take into account the syntactic structure of both sequences ( e.g. if a verb was just translated , it would be important to know whether there is in the source sequence an adverb that modifies it ) .
We reasoned that if alignment was separated from direct translation ( analogous to a separation of syntax and the meanings of individual words ) ,
We implemented this intuition by modifying an existing attention mechanism ( Bahdanau et al. , 2015 ) , and call the resultant architecture Syntactic Attention to reflect the intuition that the attention mechanism used for alignment should operate primarily on syntactic information , which should be separated from the information relevant to translating individual words .
We show that this modification achieves substantially improved compositional generalization performance over the original architecture on the SCAN dataset .
Syntactic Attention
The Syntactic Attention model improves the compositional generalization capability of an existing attention mechanism ( Bahdanau et al. , 2015 ) by separating two streams of information processing for alignment and translation ( see Figure 2 ) .
We describe the mechanisms of this separation and the other details of the model below .
Factorizing alignment and translation
In the seq2seq problem , models must learn a mapping from arbitrary - length sequences of inputs x = {x 1 , x 2 , ... , x
Tx } to arbitrary - length sequences of outputs y = {y 1 , y 2 , ... , y Ty } : p( y|x ) .
The underlying assumption made by the Syntactic Attention architecture is that the dependence of target words on the input sequence can be separated into two independent factors .
One factor , p(y i |x j ) , models the conditional distribution from individual words in the input to individual words in the target .
Note that , unlike in the model of Bahdanau et al . ( 2015 ) , these x j do not contain any information about the other words in the input sequence because they are not processed with an RNN .
The other factor , p( j ? i|x , y 1:i?1 ) , models the conditional probability that word j in the input is relevant to word i in the target sequence , given the entire input sequence .
This alignment is accomplished from encodings of the inputs produced by an RNN .
The crucial architectural assumption , then , is that any temporal dependency between individual words in the input that can be captured by an RNN should only be relevant to their alignment to words in the target sequence , and not to the translation of individual words .
This assumption will be made clearer in the model description below .
Encoder
The encoder produces two separate vector representations for each word in the input sequence .
Unlike the previous attention model ( Bahdanau et al. , 2015 ) ) , we separately extract the information that will be used for direct translation with a linear transformation : m j = W m x j , where W m is a learned weight matrix that multiplies the one- hot encodings {x 1 , ... , x Tx }.
Note that these representations do not contain any information about the other words in the sentence .
As in the previous attention mechanism ( Bahdanau et al. , 2015 ) , we use a bidirectional RNN ( biRNN ) to extract the information that will be used for alignment .
The biRNN produces a vector for each word on the forward pass , ( ? ? h 1 , ... , ? ? ? h Tx ) , and a vector for each word on the backward pass , ( ? ? h 1 , ... , ? ? ? h Tx ) .
The representation of each word x j is determined by the two vectors ? h j?1 , ? h j+1 corresponding to the words surrounding it : h j = [ ? h j?1 ; ? h j +1 ] .
In all experiments , we used a bidirectional LSTM for this purpose .
Note that h j is encoding the context of the surrounding words in the sen-tence .
Our motivation for doing this was to force the RNN in the encoder to rely on the " role " the word is playing in the sentence .
Note also that because there is no sequence information in the m j , all of the information required to align the input sequence correctly ( e.g. phrase structure , modifying relationships , etc. ) must be encoded by the biRNN .
Decoder
The decoder models the conditional probability of each target word given the input and the previous targets : p(y i |y 1 , y 2 , ... , y i?1 , x ) , where y i is a target and x is the whole input sequence .
As in the previous model , we use an RNN to determine an attention distribution over the inputs at each time step ( i.e. to align words in the input to the current target ) .
However , our decoder diverges from this model in that the mapping from inputs to outputs is performed from a weighted average of the m j : p(y i |y 1:i?1 , x ) = f ( d i ) d i = Tx j=1 ? ij m j ( 1 ) where f is parameterized by a linear function with a softmax , and the ? ij are the weights determined by the attention model .
The attention weights are computed by a function measuring how well the input representations h j align with the current hidden state of the decoder RNN , s i : ? ij = exp( e ij ) Tx k=1 exp( e ik ) e ij = a(s i , h j ) ( 2 ) where e ij can be thought of as measuring the importance of a given input word x j to the current target word y i , and s i is the current hidden state of the decoder RNN .
Bahdanau et al. ( 2015 ) model the function a with a feedforward network , but we choose to use a simple dot product : a( s i , h j ) = s i ?
h j .
Finally , the hidden state of the RNN is updated with the same weighted combination of the h j : s i = g( s i?1 , c i ) c i = Tx j=1 ? ij h j ( 3 ) where g is the decoder RNN , s i is the current hidden state , and c i can be thought of as the information in the attended words that can be used to determine what to attend to on the next time step .
Again , in all experiments an LSTM was used .
3 Experiments
SCAN dataset
The SCAN 1 dataset was specifically designed to test compositional generalization ( details can be found in the appendix , or in Lake and .
It is composed of 20,910 sequences of commands that must be mapped to sequences of actions , and is generated from a simple finite phrasestructure grammar that includes things like adverbs and conjunctions .
The splits of the dataset include : 1 ) Simple split , where training and testing data are split randomly , 2 ) Length split , where training includes only shorter sequences , and 3 ) Add primitive split , where a primitive command ( e.g. " turn left " or " jump " ) is held out of the training set , except in its most basic form ( e.g. " jump " ? JUMP )
Here we focus on the most difficult problem in the SCAN dataset , the add- jump split , where " jump " is held out of the training set .
Implementation details Experimental procedure is described in detail in the appendix .
Training and testing sets were kept as they were in the original dataset , but following ( Bastings et al. , 2018 ) , we used early stopping by validating on a 20 % held out sample of the training set .
All reported results are from runs of 200,000 iterations with a batch size of 1 .
Unless stated otherwise , each architecture was trained 5 times with different random seeds for initialization , to measure variability in results .
All experiments were implemented in PyTorch .
Details of the hyperparameter search are given in the appendix .
Our best model used LSTMs , with 2 layers and 200 hidden units in the encoder , and 1 layer and 400 hidden units in the decoder , and 120 - dimensional vectors for the m j .
The model included a dropout rate of 0.5 , and was optimized using an Adam optimizer ( Kingma and Ba , 2015 ) with a learning rate of 0.001 .
Compositional generalization results
The Syntactic Attention model achieves high compositional generalization performance on the standard seq2seq SCAN dataset ( see table 1 ) .
The table shows results ( mean test accuracy ( % ) ? standard deviation ) on the test splits of the dataset .
Syntactic Attention is compared to the previous models , which were a CNN ( Dess ? and Baroni , 2019 ) , GRUs augmented with an attention mechanism ( " + attn " ) , which either included or did not include a dependency ( " - dep " ) in the decoder on the previous action ( Bastings et al. , 2018 ) , and the recent model of Li et al . ( 2019 ) . Lake ( 2019 ) showed that a meta-learning architecture using an external memory achieves 99.95 % accuracy on a meta-seq2seq version of the SCAN task .
In this version , models are trained to learn how to generalize compositionally across a number of variants of a compositional seq2seq problem .
Here , we focus on the standard seq2seq version , which limits the model to one training episode .
The best model from the hyperparameter search showed strong compositional generalization performance , attaining a mean accuracy of 91.1 % ( median = 98.5 % ) on the test set of the add- jump split .
However , as in Dess ? and Baroni ( 2019 ) , we found that our model showed variance across initialization seeds ( see appendix for details ) .
For this reason , we ran the best model 25 times on the addjump split to get a more accurate assessment of performance .
These results were highly skewed , with a mean accuracy of 78.4 % but a median of 91.0 % ( see appendix for detailed results ) .
Overall , this represents an improvement in the compositional generalization performance compared to the original attention mechanism ( Bahdanau et al. , 2015 ; Bastings et al. , 2018 ) , and rivals the recent results from Li et al . ( 2019 ) .
Additional SCAN experiments
We hypothesized that a key feature of our architecture was that an RNN was used to encode the information in the input sequence relevant to alignment , while one was not used to encode the information relevant to translation .
To test this hypothesis , we conducted two more experiments : 1 . RNN for translation - encoding .
An additional biLSTM was used to process the input sequence : m j = [ ? ? m j ; ? ? m j ] , where ? ? m j and ? ? m j are the vectors produced for the source word x j by a biLSTM on the forward and backward passes , respectively .
These m j replace those generated by the simple linear layer in the Syntactic Attention model .
2 . c i used for translation .
Sequential information from the encoder RNN ( i.e. the c i ) was allowed to directly influence the output at each time step in the decoder : p(y i |y 1 , y 2 , ... , y i?1 , x ) = f ( [ d i ; c i ] ) , where again f is parameterized with a linear function and a softmax output nonlinearity .
The results of the additional experiments ( mean test accuracy ( % ) ? standard deviations ) are shown in table 2 .
These results partially confirmed our hypothesis : performance on the jump-split test set was worse when encodings from an RNN were directly used for translation .
However , when sequential information from the biLSTM encoder was used an additional input in the final production of actions , the model maintained good compositional generalization performance .
We hypothesize that this was because in this setup , it was easier for the model to learn to use the m j to directly translate actions , so it largely ignored the sequential information .
This experiment suggests that the factorization between alignment and translation does not have to be perfectly strict , as long as nonsequential representations are available for direct translation .
Additional results , including on other SCAN splits and analyses of the attention distributions , can be found in the appendix .
Machine translation experiments
Although the purpose of this work was to study the inductive biases that might encourage compositional generalization , we also validated our architecture on a small machine translation dataset to obtain a basic measure of its efficacy in a more naturalistic setting .
The dataset ( Lake and Bastings et al. , 2018 ) is composed of 10,000 English / French sentence pairs in the training set and 1,190 pairs in the test set .
We trained and tested our existing model without making any changes , except for adjusting the learning rate .
We also ran the same experiment with the architecture described above that used c i for translation , as this architecture also showed strong compositional generalization performance on SCAN .
BLEU scores on the test set for the best learning rate ( 0.00015 for both models ) are shown in the table below , with comparison to previously reported results using basic recurrent architectures .
Our model performs comparably in neural MT , validating it in a more naturalistic setting .
Related work
The principle of compositionality has recently regained the attention of deep learning researchers ( Bahdanau et al. , 2019 b , a ; Lake et al. , 2017 ; Lake
Model Simple Length
Add turn left Add jump GRU + attn ( Bastings et al. , 2018 ) 100.0 ? 0.0 18.1 ? 1.1 59.1 ? 16.8 12.5 ? 6.6 GRU + attn - dep ( Bastings et al. , 2018 ) 100.0 ? 0.0 17.8 ? 1.7 90.8 ? 3.6 0.7 ? 0.4 CNN ( Dess ? and Baroni , 2019 ) 100.0 ? 0.0 --69.2 ? 8.2 Li et al. ( 2019 ) 99.9 ? 0.0 20.3 ? 1.1 99.7 ? 0.4 98.8 ? 1.4 Syntactic Attention ( ours ) 100.0 ? 0.0 15.2 ? 0.7 99.9 ? 0.16 91.0 * ? 27.4 Table 1 : Compositional generalization results .
The Syntactic Attention model achieves an improvement on the compositional generalization tasks of the SCAN dataset in the standard seq2seq setting , compared to the standard recurrent models ( Bastings et al. , 2018 ; Dess? and Baroni , 2019 ) and Battaglia et al. , 2018 ; Johnson et al. , 2017 ; Keysers et al. , 2020 ) .
In particular , the issue has been explored in the visual-question answering ( VQA ) setting ( Andreas et al. , 2016 ; Hudson and Manning , 2018 ; Johnson et al. , 2017 ; Perez et al. , 2018 ; Hu et al. , 2017 ) .
Many of the successful models in this setting learn hand -coded operations ( Andreas et al. , 2016 ; Hu et al. , 2017 ) , use highly specialized components ( Hudson and Manning , 2018 ) , or use additional supervision ( Hu et al. , 2017 ) .
In contrast , our model uses standard recurrent networks and simply imposes the additional constraint that mechanisms for alignment and translation are separated .
In the Compositional Attention Network , built for VQA , the representations used to encode images and questions are restricted to interact only through attention distributions ( Hudson and Manning , 2018 ) .
Our model utilizes a similar restriction , reinforcing the idea that compositionality is enhanced when information from different modules are only allowed to interact through discrete probability distributions .
Li et al. ( 2019 ) recently showed good performance on the SCAN tasks using a very similar ap-proach .
Our results lend additional support to the idea that separating alignment and translation can facilitate compositional generalization .
The results from the meta-seq2seq version of the SCAN task ( Lake , 2019 ) suggest that meta-learning may also be a viable approach to inducing compositionality in neural networks .
We were inspired by work in cognitive science emphasizing the relationship between systematicity and syntax ( Chomsky , 1957 ; Fodor and Pylyshyn , 1988 ) .
Others have explored similar ideas in different natural language tasks ( Bastings et al. , 2017 ( Bastings et al. , , 2019
Chen et al. , 2018 ; Havrylov et al. , 2019 ; Strubell et al. , 2018 ) .
This work supports the suggestion that intuitions from cognitive science can aid architecture design in deep learning .
Conclusion
In this work we attempt to operationalize an intuition from cognitive science , implementing it as inductive bias in the form of a factorization between alignment and translation in the seq2seq setting .
We showed that this can improve compositional generalization performance on the SCAN task , and that it does n't degrade performance on a small MT task .
We believe this factorization prevents the model from memorizing spurious correlations in the data , and note that similar ideas may be useful in other natural language tasks .
