title
DFKI Hybrid Machine Translation System for WMT 2011 - On the Integration of SMT and RBMT
abstract
We present the DFKI hybrid translation system at the WMT workshop 2011 .
Three SMT and two RBMT systems are combined at the level of the final translation output .
The translation results show that our hybrid system significantly outperformed individual systems by exploring strengths of both rule-based and statistical translations .
Introduction Machine translation ( MT ) , in particular the statistical approach to it , has undergone incremental improvements in recent years .
While rule- based machine translation ( RBMT ) maintains competitiveness in human evaluations .
Combining the advantages of both approaches have been investigated by many researchers such as ( Eisele et al. , 2008 ) .
Nonetheless , significant improvements over statistical approaches still remain to be shown .
In this paper , we present the DFKI hybrid system in the WMT workshop 2011 .
Our system is different from the system of the last year ( Federmann et al. , 2010 ) , which is based on the shallow phrase substitution .
In this work , two rule- based translation systems are applied .
In addition , three statistical machine translation systems are built , including a phrase - based , a hierarchical phrase - based and a syntax - based system .
Instead of combining with rules or post-editing , we perform system combination on the final translation hypotheses .
We applied the CMU open toolkit ( Heafield and Lavie , 2010 ) among numerous combination methods such as ( Matusov , 2009 ) , ( Sim et al. , 2007 ) and ( He et al. , 2008 ) .
The final translation output outperforms each individual output significantly .
Individual translation systems 2.1 Phrase - based system
We use the IBM model 1 and 4 ( Brown et al. , 1993 ) and Hidden -Markov model ( HMM ) ( Vogel et al. , 1996 ) to train the word alignment using the mgiza toolkit 1 . We applied the EMS in Moses ( Koehn et al. , 2007 ) to build up the phrase - based translation system .
Features in the log-linear model include translation models in two directions , a language model , a distortion model and a sentence length penalty .
A dynamic programming beam search algorithm is used to generate the translation hypothesis with maximum probability .
We applied a 5 gram mixture language model with each sub-model trained on one fifth of the monolingual corpus with Kneser - Ney smoothing using SRILM toolkit ( Stolcke , 2002 ) .
We did not perform any tuning , because it hurts the evaluation performance in our experiments .
Syntax - based system
To capture the syntactic structure , we also built a tree-based system using the same configuration of EMS in Moses ( Koehn et al. , 2007 ) .
Tree- based models operate on so-called grammar rules , which include variables in the mapping rules .
To increase the diversity of models in combination , the language model in each individual translation system is trained differently .
For the tree- based system , we applied a 4 - gram language model with Kneser - Ney smoothing using SRILM toolkit ( Stolcke , 2002 ) trained on the whole monolingual corpus .
The test2007 news part is applied to tune the feature weights using mert , because the tuning on test2007 improves the translation performance more than the tuning on test2008 in a small - scale experiment for the tree- based system .
Hierarchical phrase - based system
For the hierarchical system , we used the open source hierarchical phrased - based system Jane , developed at RWTH and free for non-commercial use ( Vilar et al. , 2010 ) .
This approach is an extension of the phrase - based approach , where the phrases are allowed to have gaps ( Chiang , 2007 ) .
In this way long-range dependencies and reorderings can be modeled in a consistent statistical framework .
The system uses a fairly standard setup , trained using the bilingual data provided by the organizers , word aligned using the mgiza .
Two 5 - gram language models were used during decoding : one trained on the monolingual part of the bilingual training data , and a larger one trained on the additional news data .
Decoding was carried out using the cube pruning algorithm .
The tuning is performed on test2008 without further experiments .
Rule- based systems
We applied two rule-based translation systems , the Lucy system ( Lucy , 2011 ) and the Linguatec system ( Aleksi ? and Thurmair , 2011 ) .
The Lucy system is a recent offspring of METAL .
The Linguatec system is a modular system consisting of grammar , lexicon and morphological analyzers based on logic programming using slot grammar .
Hybrid translation
A hybrid approach combining rule-based and statistical machine translation is usually investigated with an in - box integration , such as multi-way translation ( Eisele et al. , 2008 ) , post-editing ( Ueffing et al. , 2008 ) or noun phrase substitution ( Federmann et al. , 2010 ) .
However , significant improvements over state - of - the - art statistical machine translation are still expected .
In the meanwhile system combination methods for instance described in ( Matusov , 2009 ) , ( Sim et al. , 2007 ) and ( He et al. , 2008 ) are mostly evaluated to combine statistical translation systems , rule- based systems are not considered .
In this work , we integrate the rule-based and statistical machine translation system on the level of the final translation hypothesis and treat the rule- based system anonymously as an individual system .
In this way an black - box integration is allowed using the current system combination techniques .
We applied the CMU open toolkit ( Heafield and Lavie , 2010 ) MEMT , a package by Kenneth Heafield to combine the translation hypotheses .
The language model is trained on the target side of the parallel training corpus using SRILM ( Stolcke , 2002 ) .
We used only the Europarl part to train language models for tuning and all target side of parallel data to train language models for decoding .
The beam size is set to 80 , and 300 nbest is considered .
Translation experiments 4.1 MT Setup
The parallel training corpus consists of 1.8 million German-English parallel sentences from Europarl - v6 ( Koehn , MT Summit 2005 ) and newscommentary with 48 million tokenized German words and 54 million tokenized English words respectively .
The monolingual training corpus contains the target side of the parallel training corpus and the additional monolingual language model training data downloaded from ( SMT , 2011 ) .
We did not apply the large-scale Gigaword corpus , because it does not significantly reduce the perplexity of our language model but raises the computational requirement heavily .
Single systems
For each individual translation system , different configurations are experimented to achieve a higher translation quality .
We take phrase - and syntaxbased translation system as examples .
DFKI in 2010 .
In 2010 's translation system only Europarl parallel corpus was applied , and the translation output was evaluated as 18.32 % in the BLEU score .
In 2011 , we added the News Commentary parallel corpus and trained the language model on all monolingual data provided by ( SMT , 2011 ) except for Gigaword .
As shown in Table 1 , if we increase the maximum sentence length of the training corpus from 80 to 100 , the BLEU score increases from 20.65 % to 20.78 % .
In the error analysis , we found that many OOVs come from the compound words in German .
Therefore , we applied the compound splitting for both German and English by activating the corrensponding settings in the EMS in Moses .
This leads to a further improvement of nearly 1 % in the BLEU score .
As we add the new parallel corpus provided on the homepage of SMT workshop in 2011 ( SMT , 2011 ) to the corpus in 2010 , a slight improvement can be achieved .
Within one year , the score for the DFKI PBT system DE -EN has improved by nearly 3.5 % absolute and 20 % relative BLEU score points , as shown in Table 1 .
In the phrase - based translation , the tuning was not applied , because it improves the results on the heldout data but hurts the results on the evaluation set .
In our observation , the decrease is in the range of 0.01 % to 1 % in the BLEU score .
However tuning does help for the Tree-based system .
Therefore we applied the test2007 to optimize the parameters , which enhanced the BLEU score from 17.52 % to 21.10 % .
The compound splitting also improves the syntax system , with about 1 % in the BLEU score .
We did not add the new parallel corpus into the training for syntax system due to its larger computational requirement than that of the phrase - based system .
Hybrid system
We applied test10 as the held - out data to tune the German-English and English - German translation systems .
For experiments , we applied a smallscaled 4 - gram language model trained only on the target side of the Europarl parallel training data .
As shown in Table 2 , different combinations are performed on the hypotheses generated from single systems .
We first combined the PBT with syntax system , then together with the HPBT system .
The translation result in the BLEU score performs best when we combine all three statistical machine translation systems and two rule- based systems together .
Evaluation results
For the decoding during the WMT evaluation , we applied a larger 4 - gram language model trained on the target side of all parallel training corpus .
As shown in Table 3 , in last year 's evaluation the DFKI hybrid translation result was evaluated as 17.34 % in the BLEU score .
In 2011 , among all the translation systems , the syntax system performs the best on test10 and test11 , while the PBT performs the The deregulation and Bakalas former miners ' homes are a sensitive issue .
Syntax
The deregulation and Bakalas former miners ' homes are a sensitive issue .
HPBT
The deregulation and Bakalas former Bergarbeiterwohnungen are a hot topic .
Linguatec Former miner flats are an explosive topic the deregulation and Bakalas .
HPBT
The deregulation and Bakalas former miner apartments are an explosive topic .
Hybrid
The deregulation and Bakalas former miners ' apartments are a sensitive issue .
best on test08 .
The rule- based sytems , Linguatec and Lucy are expected to have a higher score in the human evaluation than in the automatic evaluation .
Furthermore , as we can see from Table 3 , there is still room to improve the Jane system , with better modeling , configurations or even higher - order language model .
Using the hybrid system we successfully improved the translation result to 23.88 % on test10 .
The hybrid system outperforms the best single system by 0.43 % and 0.76 % in the BLEU score on the test08 and test11 , respectively .
For the translation from English to German , the translation result of last year 's submission was evaluated as 14.42 % in the BLEU score , as shown in Table 4 .
In this year , the phrase - based translation result is 15.46 % in the BLEU score .
We only set up one statistical translation system due to time limitation .
With the respect of the BLEU score , phrase - based translation outperforms rule-based translations .
Between rule- based translation systems , Linguatec performs better on the test10 ( 14.92 % ) and Lucy performs better on the test11 ( 13.0 % ) .
Combining three translation hypotheses leads to a smaller improvement ( from 15.46 % to 15.55 % ) on the test10 and a greater improvement ( from 14.05 % to 15.83 % ) on the test11 in the BLEU score over the single best translation system .
Comparing to last year 's translation output , the improvement is over one percent absolutely ( from 14.42 % to 15.55 % ) in the BLEU score on the test10 .
Output examples
Table 5 shows two translation examples from the MT output of the test2011 .
We list the source sentence in German and its reference translation as well as the translation results generated by different translation systems .
As can be seen from Table 5 , the translation quality of source sentences is greatly improved using the hybrid system over the single individual systems .
Translations of words and word orderings are more appropriate by the hybrid system .
Conclusion and future work
We presented the DFKI hybrid translation system submitted in the WMT workshop 2011 .
The hybrid translation is performed on the final translation output by individual systems , including a phrasebased system , a syntax - based system , a hierarchical phrase - based system and two rule- based systems .
Combining the results from statistical and rulebased systems significantly improved the translation performance over the single - best system , which is shown by the automatic evaluation scores and the output examples .
Despite of the encouraging results , there is still room to improve our system , such as the tuning in the phrase - based translation and a better language model in the combination .
SRCDiese Verordnung wurde vom Gesundheitsministerium in diesem Jahr einigermassen gemildert - die K?hlschrankpflicht fiel weg .
REF
It was mitigated by the Ministry of Health this year - the obligation to have a refrigerator has been removed .
PBT
This regulation by the Ministry of Health in this year - somewhat mitigated the fridge duty fell away .
Syntax
This regulation was somewhat mitigated by the Ministry of Health this year - the refrigerator duty fell away .
HPBT
This regulation was by the Ministry of Health in reasonably Dokvadze this year - the K?hlschrankpflicht fell away .
Linguatec
This ordinance was soothed to some extent by the brazilian ministry of health this year , the refrigerator duty was discontinued .
Lucy
This regulation was quite moderated by the Department of Health , Education and Welfare this year - the refrigerator duty was omitted .
Hybrid
This regulation was somewhat mitigated by the Ministry of Health this year - the fridge duty fell away .
SRC Die Deregulierung und Bakalas ehemalige Bergarbeiterwohnungen sind ein brisantes Thema .
REF Deregulation and Bakala 's former mining flats are local hot topic .
PBT
