title
TRANSREAD : Designing a Bilingual Reading Experience with Machine Translation Technologies
abstract
In this paper , we use multilingual Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) tools to improve the reading experience of parallel texts on mobile devices .
Such enterprise poses multiple challenging issues both from the NLP and from the Human Computer Interaction ( HCI ) perspectives .
We discuss these problems , and report on our own solutions , now implemented in a full-fledged bilingual reading device .
Introduction
Owing to 15 years of advances in Statistical Machine Translation ( SMT ) , automatically translated texts are nowadays of sufficiently high quality to serve the general public and the translation industry .
Contrary to ( S ) MT which primarily targets readers without any assumed literacy in the source language , the TRANSREAD project studies applications targeting partially bilingual users , such as language learners , migrants settling in a new country , inhabitants of multilingual states , editors in the publishing industry and professional translators .
Its main goal is to help such users to read texts in the original ( source ) language , even though a translation might be available in their mother tongue .
Bitext processing techniques ( Wu , 2010 ; Tiedemann , 2011 ) such as cross-lingual alignments at different levels or cross-lingual dictionary access , can facilitate and enrich the reading experience of texts in their original language .
Such endeavour poses difficult challenges : it first requires to push existing MT technologies to the limit and to revisit assumptions that are rarely questioned , such as the need to deliver fully aligned bitexts , including many - to - many sentence links , and to output highprecision word and phrase alignments , even for rare words or gappy multi-word units .
A second challenge is visualisation and interaction design .
In fact , most existing interfaces for bilingual reading / writing have targeted specialists of the MT industry , serving purposes such as manual alignment input and visualisation ( Smith and Jahry , 2000 ; Germann , 2008 ; Gilmanov et al. , 2014 ; Steele and Specia , 2015 ) , MT tracing and debugging ( DeNeefe et al. , 2005 ; Weese and Callison- Burch , 2010 ) , MT quality assessment ( Federmann , 2012 ; Chatzitheodorou , 2013 ; Girardi et al. , 2014 ) or MT post-edition ( Aziz et al. , 2012 ) .
By contrast , our aim is not just to visualize the translation or bilingual correspondences , but rather to enable a smooth and seamless reading experience for the general public .
Ebook reading applications typically allow the reader to select a word and to access the corresponding dictionary entry , but applications that exploit the full translation context are much rarer .
In DoppelText 1 , DuoLir 2 and Parallel Text Reader on iOS , the selection is performed at the sentence level , using alignments .
Whatever level is used , this kind of switch - on- demand interaction interrupts the flow of reading and can be a source of frustration .
Another approach uses synchronized views , where the bitext is shown to the reader along with alignment links .
In ParallelBooks 3 , the bitext is synchronized by scrolling and the translation ( at the paragraph level ) only appears when the user taps the screen .
Synchronized views have the potential to enable a seamless reading of the bitext ( Pillias and Cubaud , 2015 ) , at the cost however of a larger screen space .
This paper discusses these various challenges and reports on the state of development of our main tool - the bilingual reader .
Additional information , including resources and demos , can be found on the project website .
4 2 Augmenting e-books with alignments
A major requirement of electronic reading devices is their ability to seamlessly reformat and adapt their typesetting , which does not only include the text itself but also other editorial ( header , footer ) , typographic ( bold , italic , font sizes and shapes ) and dispositional information .
An early design choice was to include alignment information as auxiliary source of information to the original electronic book ( s ) .
Each side of the bitext is thus stored in the EPUB format , 5 a de facto standard for electronic books , thereby enabling us to take advantage of its inherent ability to encode arbitrary documents and media files , as well as directives regarding their display .
Linguistic annotations are stored in an additional file to the EPUB archive and use an XML - based representation inspired by the XCES format , 6 already proposed in the early 2000s to represent alignment information .
References to actual textual units ( in the EPUB / html files ) are maintained as the complete path from the root of the document to the node containing the unit .
Our format for representing annotations is generic enough to represent alignment links at various levels of granularity , as well as other arbitrary information .
It relies on two types of basic markups : < link > for binary relationships ( bilingual links or monolingual co-references ) , and < mark > for unary information concerning one single unit ( be it a paragraph , a sentence , a fragment or a word ) .
In our sample file , these tags are used to encode part- of-speech as well as sense disambiguation information .
However , only the information related to bilingual alignment links is currently displayed .
Challenges of bitext alignments
Our representation of alignment relationships accommodates alignment links at various levels of granularity .
Our display currently exploits 5 such levels , based on sentential , sub-sentential and word alignments , which were computed for two short stories by S. Maugham .
7
Sentence alignment Sentence alignment in parallel texts ( bitexts ) is a well established problem in multilingual NLP ( Brown et al. , 1991 ; Gale and Church , 1991 ; Kay and R?scheisen , 1993 ) , for which a wide array of methods exist ( Tiedemann , 2011 ) .
The problem is however far from being solved , especially for literary texts where parallelism is less strict than for technical or legal documents ( Yu et al. , 2012 ) .
For this demo , alignments have been produced semiautomatically .
The automatic part used techniques presented by ( Xu et al. , 2015 ) , which implement a multi-pass , coarse- to -fine alignment strategy .
The first pass uses very reliable 1:1 alignment links computed using the approach of ( Moore , 2002 ) , while the next stages complete this initial partial alignment by including additional correspondences , the probabilities of which are evaluated using a large-scale MaxEnt classifier embarking a very large number of features .
Automatic alignments were then manually checked and fixed : for our simple bitexts they were mostly correct , with a link level F-score ? 97 % .
Word alignments
For this demo , gold word alignments were collected as follows : automatic word alignments were first computed by running the MGiza ( Gao and Vogel , 2008 ) implementation of IBM Model 4 ( Brown et al. , 1993 ) in both directions .
Alignments in the intersection were checked and corrected following the recommandations of Och and Ney ( 2003 ) .
Even for such simple texts , alignment errors were numerous , with an AER close to 0.17 ( ' The Promise ' ) , and to 0.19 ( ' The Verger ' ) .
This confirms the intuition that computing high quality word alignments for literary texts might be significantly more difficult than for other text genres .
This also calls for improved techniques for computing confidence measures for word alignments ( Huang , 2009 ) : depending on the intended reading context , it might be better to avoid displaying erroneous alignment links .
Subsentential alignments
The task of designing sound and tractable alignment models is notoriously much harder for groups of words than for words ( Marcu and Wong , 2002 ; DeNero and Klein , 2008 ) .
Two main strategies have been explored in the literature : the most common , employed in most SMT systems ( Koehn et al. , 2007 ) starts with alignments for isolated words , which are incrementally grown subject to consistency constraints .
The alternative way is to start with sentential alignments and adopt a divisive strategy , which yields progressive refinements of an initially holistic pairing ; this can be performed exactly under ITG constraints ( Wu , 1997 ) ; heuristic approaches , capable of handling alignments for arbitrarily long segments have also been proposed in ( Lardilleux et al. , 2012 ) : both techniques require to evaluate the parallelism of arbitrary chunks .
We follow the latter here , also using punctuation marks to select segmentation points .
The resulting alignments are deliberately pretty coarse and primarily meant to be used in a contrastive condition for the human tests .
A Bilingual Reader
Design
The current version of the TRANSREAD bilingual reader displays paginated versions of the bitext in parallel views .
In Figure 1 , the source text is displayed on the right side of the screen and its translation on the left .
The user has selected a word in the source version .
Touching a word highlights its context on both sides , exploiting the alignment structure in a hierarchical way .
Highlighting can be triggered from both versions of the text .
The different levels are depicted using bounding boxes , which are pre-computed using the alignment and the HTML graphs .
Bounding boxes are not always rectangular , because of word hyphenation for text justification .
We have tried to minimize visual overload by simplifying the resulting geometry of the boxes and using a colour scale as background .
We use the " natural " theme from ( Krause , 2010 ) .
The display size for the bitext can be modified dynamically .
When the application starts , the text versions are given an equal space , but the translation on the left can be shrunk so that the reader can concentrate on the original text .
Structural highlighting is still functional in this mode , but when the translated text is shrunk to its minimum size , it can only be used as a visual hint .
Our reader is targeted for use on a tablet device .
Interactions with the tactile screen of the tablet cause the well - known problem of fingers occluding the touched item .
To avoid this issue , a pointer is displayed 1.3 cm above the touch position sensed by the system , and its position determines what elements are selected .
This picking is done by recursively searching the textual elements whose precomputed bounding boxes contain the pointer 's position .
When this process selects two sibling elements ( e.g. two sentences in a paragraph ) , the system only keeps the one for which the distance from the pointer to the closest bounding box border is greatest .
The pointer shape is an upward triangle .
When a word is selected , we also display a downward triangle above it attached to the line of text , but following the pointer horizontally .
These two triangles enclose the selected word without occluding it .
Implementation
As readers , we benefit from centuries of high quality printed typesetting .
A poor digital typesetting would therefore lower the user experience of our bilingual reader , no matter how rich the interaction may be .
But automated typesetting is a complex task , often under-estimated .
For instance , justification on small columns , as those produced by bitext presentation , can exhibit " rivers " of white space that are difficult to handle automatically .
Our first goal for the implementation was then to select a programming framework that would help for these questions .
The Knuth - Plass algorithm 8 was used for justification , along with L A T E X rules 9 for hyphenation .
Another important issue was to build a fully reconfigurable software in order to investigate a large design space of interaction for tablets .
We have selected the Kivy framework for Python , which en -
Perspectives
As reflected in this paper , a top priority is to pursue our efforts towards high - precision alignments , an application where supervised learning techniques could help ( Moore , 2005 ) .
Additional functionalities in reading are also envisioned , such as an enhanced and non-distracting access to dictionary information for difficult words .
Currently , Web Readers and mobile reading devices offer such functionality through a pop-up window presenting the complete dictionary entry .
No assistance is however offered to access the right sense in context , which would be especially helpful for polysemous words or when language proficiency is low .
In TRAN - SREAD , we propose to perform this selection automatically .
Our word sense disambiguation ( WSD ) method ( Apidianaki and Gong , 2015 ) exploits wordlevel alignments to annotate words on both sides of the bitext with the correct senses extracted from BabelNet ( Navigli and Ponzetto , 2012 ) .
By integrating WSD information in the reader , we will be able to propose definitions , usage examples and Wikipedia entries , as well as synonymous words and semantically correct translations .
Our WSD system embeds an alignment - based multi-word expression ( MWE ) identification mechanism ( Marie and Apidianaki , 2015 ) .
Such information will serve as part of a smart selection mechanism ( Pantel et al. , 2014 ) , enabling the system to select appropriate spans and dictionary entries for MWEs found in texts .
An experimental evaluation of the interface general design is currently being conducted .
We study , notably , the effect of the depth of the alignment structure on human readers behavior .
As short term future work , we shall also investigate other interaction techniques for focus management , such as distortion and 3D views for page turning ( Cubaud , 2008 ) .
The graphic composition engine developed for the current application already allows such effects .
A research agenda should also include long term experiments with real- life reading sessions for a wide range of languages and text difficulties .
Conclusion
We have presented a first version of a bilingual reader using NLP and HCI technologies to enhance the reading experience .
On our way , some tough challenges had to be overcome , an unexpected issue being the processing of typeset documents which is hardly addressed in the NLP literature .
This venture has provided a context where such issues matter , illustrating the benefits of cross-domain research .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : The TRANSREAD bilingual reader application running on tablet
