title
What 's in a Domain ?
Analyzing Genre and Topic Differences in Statistical Machine Translation Marlies van der Wees
abstract
Domain adaptation is an active field of research in statistical machine translation ( SMT ) , but so far most work has ignored the distinction between the topic and genre of documents .
In this paper we quantify and disentangle the impact of genre and topic differences on translation quality by introducing a new data set that has controlled topic and genre distributions .
In addition , we perform a detailed analysis showing that differences across topics only explain to a limited degree translation performance differences across genres , and that genre-specific errors are more attributable to model coverage than to suboptimal scoring of translation candidates .
Introduction
Training corpora for statistical machine translation ( SMT ) are typically collected from a wide variety of sources and therefore have varying textual characteristics such as writing style and vocabulary .
The test set , on the other hand , is much smaller and usually more homogeneous .
The resulting mismatch between the test data and the majority of the training data can lead to suboptimal translation performance .
In such situations , it is beneficial to adapt the translation system to the translation task at hand , which is exactly the challenge of domain adaptation in SMT .
The concept of a domain , however , is not unambiguously defined across existing domain adaptation methods .
Commonly used interpretations of domains neglect the fact that topic and genre are two distinct properties of text ( Lee and Myaeng , 2002 ; Stein and Meyer Zu Eissen , 2006 ) .
Two texts can discuss a similar topic , but using different styles .
Since most work on domain adaptation in SMT uses in- domain and out - of- domain data that differ on both the topic and the genre level , it is unclear whether the proposed solutions address topic or genre differences .
In this work we take a step back and disentangle the concepts topic and genre , then we analyze and quantify their effect on SMT , which we believe is a necessary step towards further improving domain adaptation for SMT .
Concretely , we address the following questions : ( i ) Can we clarify the ambiguous use of the concept domain with regard to adaptation in SMT ?
( ii )
Which of two intrinsic text properties , topic and genre , presents a larger challenge to SMT ?
( iii )
To what extent do topic and genre differ with respect to SMT model coverage and observed out - of- vocabulary ( OOV ) types ?
To answer these questions , we introduce a new data set with controlled topic-genre distributions , which we use for an in- depth analysis of the impact of topic and genre differences on SMT .
Topic and genre differences in SMT
The definition of a domain varies across work on domain adaptation and is often imprecise .
In this work we avoid using this ambiguous term , and instead focus on the text properties topic and genre .
Topic is the general subject of a document .
Topics can be determined on multiple levels , ranging from very broad to more detailed .
Examples of topics include sports , politics , and science ( high - level ) , or football and tennis ( low- level ) .
Genre is harder to define , as there is no single definition in literature ( Swales , 1990 ; Karlgren ,
What development in Yemen are you talking about ?
We will continue to call for freedom until independence and liberation and the routing of the northern occupation from our lands .
Table 1 : English-side samples from the Gen&Topic data set .
All pairs of newswire ( NW ) and usergenerated ( UG ) fragments in the data set discuss the same article and are topically related .
2004 ) .
Based on previous definitions , Santini ( 2004 ) concludes that the term genre is used as a concept complementary to topic , covering the non-topical text properties function , style , and text type .
Like topics , genres can also exhibit different levels of granularity ( Lee , 2001 ) .
Examples of genres include formal or informal text ( high - level ) , and newswire , editorials , and user-generated text ( low- level ) .
Topic and genre are both intrinsic properties of texts , but most work on domain adaptation uses provenance or subcorpus information to adapt SMT systems to a specific translation task ( Foster and Kuhn , 2007 ; Duh et al. , 2010 ; Bisazza et al. , 2011 ; Sennrich , 2012 ; Bisazza and Federico , 2012 ; Haddow and Koehn , 2012 , among others ) .
In recent years , some work has explicitly addressed topic adaptation for SMT ( Eidelman et al. , 2012 ; Hewavitharana et al. , 2013 ; Hasler et al. , 2014a ; Hasler et al. , 2014 c ) using latent Dirichlet allocation ( Blei et al. , 2003 ) .
While Hasler et al. ( 2014 b ) showed that provenance and topic can serve as complements to each other , the effects of genre and topic on SMT have not been systematically studied .
The Gen&Topic benchmark set
To analyze the impact of genre and topic differences in SMT , we need a test set where both dimensions are controlled as much as possible .
Unfortunately , currently available and commonly used benchmarks meet this requirement only to a limited degree .
For instance , while the NIST OpenMT sets do contain documents drawn from two genres , newswire and web , both genres exhibit a different distribution over topics , i.e. , the same topic might not be equally represented across genres , and vice versa .
To overcome this limitation , we introduce a new Arabic- English parallel benchmark set , the Gen&Topic data set , that contains documents with controlled topic and genre distributions .
This benchmark set consists of manually translated news articles crawled from the web with their corresponding , manually translated readers ' comments and thus comprises the genres newswire ( NW ) and user-generated ( UG ) text .
Since each pair of NW and UG documents originates from the same article , we can assume that both documents discuss the same topic , for which labels are provided by the source websites .
By including comparable numbers of tokens per genre for each article , we enforce equal topic distributions across the genres .
Two examples of NW - UG pairs are shown in Table 1 .
Note that the selected UG sentences in the Gen&Topic data set are well - formulated comments rather than dialog-oriented content such as SMS or chat messages , which pose substantially larger challenges to SMT than the Gen&Topic comments ( van der Wees et al. , 2015 ) .
For parameter estimation purposes , we split the complete benchmark into a development and a test set , such that the development set contains approximately one - third of the data , while ensuring that articles in each set originate from non-overlapping time periods .
Table 2 lists the specifications of the complete benchmark , which we make available for download 1 . 4 Quantifying the impact of genre and topic differences on SMT
To quantify the impact of multiple genres and topics in a test corpus , we run a series of experiments in which we measure translation quality , model coverage , and observed OOV types .
Translation quality
We first run a translation experiment on the Gen&Topic test set using our in- house phrasebased SMT system similar to Moses ( Koehn et al. , 2007 ) .
Features include lexicalized reordering , linear distortion with limit 5 , and lexical weighting .
In addition , we use a 5 - gram linearly interpolated language model , trained on 1.6B words with Kneser - Ney smoothing ( Chen and Goodman , 1999 ) , that covers all topics and genres contained in the benchmark .
We tune our system on the Gen&Topic development set using pairwise ranking optimization ( PRO ) ( Hopkins and May , 2011 ) .
Naturally , performance differences across topics and genres depend on the degree to which both are represented in the parallel training data .
To allow for fair comparison , we down - sample our available training data to be as balanced as possible in terms of topics and genres .
The resulting system is trained on approximately 200K sentence pairs with 6 M source tokens per genre , as much as is available for UG .
All data originates from the same web sources as the documents in the benchmark .
Our more competitive system ( van der Wees et al. , 2015 ) that uses also LDC - distributed data yields slightly higher BLEU scores , but is more favorable for NW than for UG translation tasks .
Due to the strict data requirements in terms of topic and genre distributions , as well as the availability of sizable parallel training data , our current experimental set- up covers Arabic - English only .
lation performance fluctuates much more across genres than across topics :
There is a large gap of 3.9 BLEU points between NW and UG , which can be entirely attributed to actual genre differences given the construction of the Gen&Topic data set and the use of down - sampled training data .
On the other hand , the gap between different topics is only 0.6 BLEU points on average , and at most 1.1 ( between culture and politics ) .
A translation quality gap between genres has also been observed in past OpenMT evaluation campaigns .
However , as the NIST benchmarks have not been controlled for topics across genres , it is unclear to what extent this gap can be attributed to genre differences .
Model coverage analysis Next , to explain the large performance gap between genres , we analyze the phrase lengths within Viterbi translations , source phrase and phrase pair recall , and phrase pair OOV of the Gen&Topic test set ( Table 4 ) .
Average source-side phrase length
We first compute the average number of source words contained in the phrases that our SMT system uses to produce the 1 - best translations for the Gen&Topic test set .
One can see that UG is translated with shorter phrases than NW , and that differences between genres are more pronounced than among topics .
This difference , in turn , can be due to unreliable translation probabilities but also to the mere lack of translation options in the models .
We quantify the impact of the latter by measuring phrase recall on each test portion .
align the test set and extract from it a set of reference phrase pairs using the same procedure applied to the training data .
Then , we count the number of reference phrase pairs whose source side is covered by the translation models ( source phrase recall ) and the number of reference phrase pairs that are fully covered by the translation models ( source - target phrase pair recall ) .
Formally , we define the set of source-matching phrases as :
Phrase recall and phrase pair OOV M S = {( f , ? ) | ( f , ? ) ?
P test ? ( f , ? ) ?
P train } , where P d refers to the set of phrase pairs ( f , ? ) that can be extracted from corpus d.
Source phrase recall R S n for phrases of length n is then defined as : R S n = ( f , ? ) ?M
S ?| f | =n c test ( f , ? ) ( f , ? ) ?
Ptest ?|
f | =n c test ( f , ? ) , ( 1 ) where c test ( f , ? ) denotes the frequency of phrase pair ( f , ? ) in the test set .
Analogously , we define the set of source- target - matching phrase pairs as : M S, T = {( f , ? ) | ( f , ? ) ?
P test ? ( f , ? ) ?
P train } and the source-target phrase pair recall R S, T n for phrases of length n as : R S , T n = ( f , ? ) ?M
S, T ?| f | =n c test ( f , ? ) ( f , ? ) ?
Ptest ?|
f | =n c test ( f , ? ) . ( 2 ) Finally , we call phrase pair OOV the portion of reference phrase pairs that are not covered by the translation models , that is : 1 ? N n R S, T n , where N is the phrase limit used for phrase extraction .
The results of our analysis , broken down by source phrase length , show that source phrase recall is much lower in UG than in NW , while variations among topics are only very small .
The stronger impact of genre differences is even more visible on phrase pair recall : for instance , our system knows the correct translation of 73.8 % of the single-source - word phrase pairs in the NW genre .
In UG this is only 56.2 % , despite the equal amounts of training data per genre in our system .
These figures suggest that model coverage - both mono- and bilingual - is an important reason for the low SMT quality on UG data .
Most existing approaches to domain adaptation focus on domain-sensitive scoring or selection of existing translation candidates ( Matsoukas et al. , 2009 ; Foster et al. , 2010 ; Axelrod et al. , 2011 ; Chen et al. , 2013 , among others ) .
This strategy is supported by the error analysis of Irvine et al . ( 2013 ) , who show that scoring errors are more common across domains than errors caused by OOVs , in the source as well as the target language .
Across genres however , our results in Table 4 show that both word-level and phrase- level OOVs are a more likely explanation for the performance differences .
This stresses the need to address model coverage , for example by paraphrasing ( Callison - Burch et al. , 2006 ) or translation synthesis ( Irvine and Callison - Burch , 2014 ) .
Manual OOV analysis
To get a better understanding of the OOVs observed for the genres and topics in the Gen&Topic set , we perform a fine-grained manual analysis 2 . For this analysis a bilingual speaker manually annotated 500 sentences on the source side ( equally distributed over genres and topics ) to identify the class of each OOV .
Annotations are done for top and sub-level classes ( e.g. , replaced letter , which is a subclass of spelling errors ) .
In total , we consider 17 subclasses which we group into five main classes , see Table 5 for examples .
Table 6 shows the type level percentages 3 for each main OOV class per genre or topic .
When comparing the two genres , a number of observations emerge .
Firstly , rare but correct words ( e.g. , proper nouns and technical terms , both regular issues for adaptation in SMT ) make up the vast majority of the OOVs in NW , but are relatively infrequent in UG .
By contrast , OOVs containing unseen morphological variants are equally common in both genres .
Although complex morphology is language-specific , a rare morphological word in Arabic often maps to a rare multi-word phrase in English , resulting in phrase - level OOVs .
Next , not entirely surprising , the majority of OOVs in UG are due to spelling errors .
Finally , OOVs assigned to the remaining classes are never observed in NW but occasionally occur in UG .
Next , a comparison of the main OOV classes among the various topics shows a few notable distributions .
Dialectal forms , for example , are rare in all topics except politics , where they are commonly observed in the form of Egyptian future tense .
This can be explained by the presence of news articles about elections in Egypt in the Gen&Topic set .
Next , while spelling errors are common in all topics , its abundance is most prominent in culture .
Most spelling errors concern missing or inserted blanks , suggesting that comments are likely written on mobile devices .
Finally , unseen morphological variants are more frequent in economy than in other topics , however with no conclusive explanation .
Conclusions and implications
Despite the fact that domain adaptation is an active field of research in SMT , there is little consensus on what exactly constitutes a domain .
By introducing and analyzing a new benchmark with balanced topic and genre distributions , we have shown that earlier findings explaining the differences across topics only explain to a limited degree translation performance differences across genres .
Our analysis shows that genre-specific errors are more attributable to model- coverage errors than to suboptimal scoring of existing translation candidates .
This suggests that future work on improving SMT across genres needs to investigate approaches that increase model coverage .
Our fine- grained manual error analysis at the word level also suggests that source coverage could benefit from text normalization ( Bertoldi et al. , 2010 ) .
Finally , we make both our benchmark and the manual OOV annotations publicly available .
Table 2 : 2 Statistics of the Arabic-English Gen&Topic data set containing five topics and two genres : newswire ( NW ) and user-generated ( UG ) text .
Tokens are counted on the Arabic side .
Table 3 compares BLEU scores ( Papineni et al. , 2002 , 1 reference ) of the Gen&Topic data , split down by topics and genres .
We observe that trans - NW UG All Culture Economy 19.9 15.9 18.9 19.2 17.6 19.3 Health 19.3 17.7 18.8 ? ? ? ? ? Avg. diff. : ?0.6 Politics Security 21.3 13.6 18.2 19.3 16.2 18.5 ? ? ? ? All 19.9 16.0 18.9 Avg. diff. : ?3.9
Table 3 3 : Arabic-to- English BLEU scores on the Gen&Topic test set ( 1 reference translation ) per topic-genre combination .
Tuning was done on the complete Gen&Topic development set .
Variations in translation quality are represented by average pairwise BLEU score differences .
Table 4 : 4 Impact of genre and topic differences on various indicators of SMT model quality .
To com -
Table 5 : 5 Examples of OOVs observed in the Gen&Topic set with their respective main OOV class .
Gen&Topic OOV type portion Rare Dial Morph Spel Coll Other NW 77.8 0.0 16.7 5.6 0.0 0.0 UG 9.8 9.0 17.2 42.6 12.3 9.0 Culture 17.4 0.0 17.4 52.2 8.7 4.3 Economy 13.8 0.0 34.5 31.0 13.8 6.9 Health 15.8 10.5 15.8 36.8 10.5 10.5 Politics 25.0 25.0 12.5 25.0 0.0 12.5 Security 23.5 8.8 5.9 41.2 14.7 5.9
Table 6 : 6 Error percentages per Gen&Topic portion of main OOV classes , see Table5 for explanation .
Other events include words that are not understandable or occur in the phrase table but only captured in a different context .
http://ilps.science.uva.nl/resources/ gen-topic /
Available with the benchmark data at http://ilps .
science.uva.nl/resources/gen-topic/
We also collected token level frequencies which are very similar to the listed type level statistics , except for a small number of repeatedly occurring proper nouns .
