title
HITSZ_CITYU : Combine Collocation , Context Words and Neighboring Sentence Sentiment in Sentiment Adjectives Disambiguation
abstract
This paper presents the HIT_CITYU systems in Semeval - 2 Task 18 , namely , disambiguating sentiment ambiguous adjectives .
The baseline system ( HITSZ_CITYU_3 ) incorporates bi-gram and n-gram collocations of sentiment adjectives , and other context words as features in a one-class Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) classifier .
To enhance the baseline system , collocation set expansion and characteristics learning based on word similarity and semisupervised learning are investigated , respectively .
The final system ( HITSZ_CITYU _1/2 ) combines collocations , context words and neighboring sentence sentiment in a two -class SVM classifier to determine the polarity of sentiment adjectives .
The final systems achieved 0.957 and 0.953 ( ranked 1 st and 2nd ) macro accuracy , and 0.936 and 0.933 ( ranked 2 nd and 3 rd ) micro accuracy , respectively .
Introduction Sentiment analysis is always puzzled by the context-dependent sentiment words that one word brings positive , neutral or negative meanings in different contexts .
Hatzivassiloglou and Mckeown ( 1997 ) predicated the polarity of adjectives by using the pairs of adjectives linked by consecutive or negation conjunctions .
Turney and Littman ( 2003 ) determined the polarity of sentiment words by estimating the point-wise mutual information between sentiment words and a set of seed words with strong polarity .
Andreevskaia and Bergler ( 2006 ) used a Sentiment Tag Extraction Program to extract sentimentbearing adjectives from WordNet .
Esuli and Sebasian ( 2006 ) studied the context-dependent sentiment words in WordNet but ignored the in-stances in real context .
Wu et al . ( 2008 ) applied collocation plus a SVM classifier in Chinese sentiment adjectives disambiguation .
Xu et al. ( 2008 ) proposed a semi-supervised learning algorithm to learn new sentiment word and their contextdependent characteristics .
Semeval -2
Task 18 is designed to provide a common framework and dataset for evaluating the disambiguation techniques for Chinese sentiment adjectives .
The HITSZ_CITYU group submitted three runs corresponding to one baseline system and one improved systems ( two runs ) .
The baseline system ( HITSZ_CITYU_3 ) is based on collocations between sentiment words and their targets as well as their context words .
For the ambiguous adjectives , 412 positive and 191 negative collocations are built from a 100 million - word corpus as the seed collocation set .
Using the context words of seed collocations as features , a one-class SVM classifier is trained in the baseline system .
Using HowNet - based word similarity as clue , the seed collocations are expanded to improve the coverage of collocationbased technique .
Furthermore , a semi-supervised learning algorithm is developed to learn new collocations between sentiment words and their targets from raw corpus .
Finally , the inner sentence features , such as collocations and context words , and the inter sentence features , i.e. neighboring sentence sentiments , are incorporated to determine the polarity of ambiguous adjectives .
The improved systems ( HITSZ_CITYU _1/2 ) achieved 0.957 and 0.953 macro accuracy ( ranked 1 st and 2 nd ) and 0.936 and 0.933 micro accuracy ( ranked 2 nd and 3 rd ) , respectively .
This result shows that collocation , context-words and neighboring sentence sentiment are effective in sentiment adjectives disambiguation .
The rest of this paper is organized as follows .
Section 2 presents the collocation extraction subsystem based on lexical statistics .
Section 3 presents the baseline system and Section 4 presents the improved systems .
The experiment results are given in Section 5 and finally , Section 6 concludes .
Collocation Extraction
A lexical statistics - based collocation extraction subsystem is developed to identify both the bigram and n-gram collocations of sentiment adjectives .
This subsystem is based on our previous research on Chinese collocation extraction .
It recognizes the co-occurring words of a headword as collocations which have co-occurrence frequency significance among all co-occurring words and co-occurrence position significance among all co-occurring positions .
For a sentiment adjective , noted as w head , any word within the [ - 5 , + 5 ] context window is a coword , denoted as w co-i for 1 ?
i ? k , where k is the total number of different co-words of w head .
BI - Strength ( w head , w co -i ) between a head word w head and a co-word w co-i ( i=1 , to k ) is designed to measure the co-occurrence frequency significance as follows : ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( 5 . 0 ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( 5 . 0 ) , ( min max min max i co i co i co i co head head head head i co head i co head w f w f w f w w f w f w f w f w w f w w Strength BI ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? + ? ? ? = ? ( 1 ) where , f max ( w head ) , f min ( w head ) and ) ( head w f are the highest , lowest and average co-occurrence frequencies among all the co-words of w head , , respectively ; f max ( w co - i ) , f min ( w coi ) and ) ( i co w f ? are respectively the highest , lowest and average cooccurrence frequencies of the co-words for w co - i .
The value of BI - Strength ( w head w co-j ) ranges from - 1 to 1 , and a larger value means a stronger association .
Suppose f( w head , w co - i , m ) is the frequency that w co-i co-occurs with w head at position m ( - 5 < =m < =5 ) .
The BI - Spread ( w head , w co - i ) is designed to characterizes the significance that w co-i around w head at neighbouring places as follows : ) , , ( | ) , ( ) , , ( | ) , ( 5 5 5 5 ? ? ? = ? ? = ? ? ? ? = ?
m i co head m i co head i co head i co head m w w f w w f m w w f w w Spread BI ( 2 ) where , ) , ( i co head w w f ? , f max ( w head , , w co - i ) , and f min ( w hea , , d w co-i ) are the average , highest , and lowest co-occurrence frequencies among all 10 positions , respectively .
The value of BI - Spread ( w head , w co-i ) ranges from 0 to 1 .
A larger value means that w head and w co-i tend to co-occur in one or two positions .
The word pairs satisfying , ( 1 ) BI - Strength ( w head w co-j ) > K 0 and ( 2 ) BI - Spread ( w head , w co -i ) > U0 , are extracted as bi-gram collocations , where K 0 and U 0 are empirical threshold .
Based on the extracted bi-gram collocations , the appearance of each co-word in each position around w head is analyzed .
For each of the possible relative distances from w head , only words occupying the position with a probability greater than a given threshold T are kept .
Finally , the adjacent words satisfying the threshold requirement are combined as n-gram collocations .
The Baseline System
The baseline system incorporates collocation and context words as features in a one-class SVM classifier .
It consists of two steps : STEP 1 : To match a test instance containing seed collocation set .
If the instance cannot be matched by any collocations , go to STEP 2 .
STEP 2 : Use a trained classifier to indentify the sentiment of the word .
The collocations of 14 testing sentiment adjectives are extracted from a 100 - million - word corpus .
Collocations with obvious and consistent sentiment are manually identified .
412 positive and 191 negative collocations are established as the seed collocation set .
We think that the polarity of a word can be determined by exploiting the association of its cooccurring words in sentence .
We assume that , the two instances of an ambiguous sentiment adjectives that have similar neighboring nouns may have the same polarity .
Gamon and Aue ( 2005 ) made an assumption to label sentiment terms .
We extract 13,859 sentences containing collocations between negative adjective and targets in seed collocation set or collocations between ambiguous adjective and negative modifier ( such as ? too ) as the training data .
These sentences are assume negative .
A single- class classifier is then trained to recognize negative sentences .
Three types of features are used : (
The Improved System
The preliminary experiment shows that the baseline system is not satisfactory , especially the coverage is low .
It is observed that the seed collocation set covers 17.54 % of sentences containing the ambiguous adjectives while the collocations between adjective and negative modifier covers only 11.28 % .
Therefore , we expand the sentiment adjective -target collocation set based on word similarity and a semi-supervised learning algorithm orderly .
We then incorporate both inner-sentence features ( collocations , context words , etc. ) and inter-sentence features in the improved systems for sentiment adjectives disambiguation .
Collocation Set Expansion based on Word Similarity First , we expand the seed collocation set on the target side .
The words strongly similar to known targets are identified by using a word similarity calculation package , provided by HowNet ( a Chinese thesaurus ) .
Once these words co-occur with adjective within a context window more often than a threshold , they are appended to seed collocation set .
For example , " ?-?( low capacity ) " is expanded from a seed collocation " ? -? ( low capacity ) " .
Second , we manually identify the words having the same " trend " as the testing adjectives .
For example , " ? increase " is selected as a same-trend word of " ? high " .
The collocations of " ? " are extracted from corpus .
Its collocated targets with confident and consistent sentiment are appended to the sentiment collocation set of " ? " if they co-occurred with " ? " more than a threshold .
In this way , some lowfrequency sentiment collocation can be obtained .
Semi-supervised Learning of Sentiment Collocations
A semi-supervised learning algorithm is developed to further expand the collocation seed set , which is described as follows .
( It is revised based on our previous research ( Xu et al. 2008 ) .
The basic assumption here is that , the sentiment of a sentence having ambiguous adjectives can be estimated based on the sentiment of its neighboring sentences .
Input : Raw training corpus , labeled as S u , Step 1 .
The sentences holding strong polarities are recognized from S u which satisfies any two of following requirements , ( 1 ) contains known context - free sentiment word ( CFSW ) ; ( 2 ) contains more than three known context- dependent sentiment words ( CDSW ) ; ( 3 ) contains collocations between degree adverbs and known CDSWs ; ( 4 ) contains collocations between degree adverbs and opinion operators ( the verbs indicate a opinion operation , such as ? praise ) ; ( 5 ) contains known opinion indicator and known CDSWs .
Step 2 .
Identify the strong non-opinionated sentences in S u .
The sentences satisfying all of following four conditions are recognized as nonopinionated ones , ( 1 ) have no known sentiment words ; ( 2 ) have no known opinion operators ; ( 3 ) have no known degree adverbs and ( 4 ) have no known opinion indicators .
Step 3 . Identify the opinion indicators in the rest sentences .
Determine their polarities if possible and mark the conjunction ( e.g.? and ) or negation relationship ( e.g.? but ) in the sentences .
Step 4 . Match the CFSWs and known CDSWs in S u .
The polarities of CFSWs are assigned based on sentiment lexicon .
Step 5 .
If a CDSW occurs in a sentence with certain orientations which is determined by the opinion indicators , its polarity is assigned as the value suggested .
If a CDSW co-occur with a seed collocated target , it polarity is assigned according to the seed sentiment collocation set .
Otherwise , if a CDSW co-occur with a CFSW in the same sentence , or the neighboring continual or compound sentence , the polarity of CDSW is assigned as the same as CFSW , or the reversed polarity if a negation indicator is detected .
Step 6 .
Update the polarity scores of CDSWs in the target set by using the cases where the polarity is determined in Step 5 .
Step 7 .
Determine the polarities of CDSWs in the undetermined sentences .
Suppose S i is a sentence and the polarity scores of all its CFSWs and CDSWs are known , its polarity , labeled as Plo ( S i ) , is estimated by using the polarity scores of all of the opinion words in this sentence , viz . : ? ? + ? = ) ( _ ) ( _ ) ( _ ) ( pos _ ) ( CDSW neg P CDSW pos P CFSW neg P CFSW P Si Plo ( 3 ) A large value ( >0 ) of Plo(s i ) implies that s i tends to be positive , and vice versa .
Step 8 .
If the sentence polarity cannot be determined by its components , we use the polarity of its neighboring sentences s j-1 and s j+1 , labeled as Plo(s j-1 ) and Plo(s j +1 ) , respectively , to help determine Plo(s j ) , viz. : ) ( 5 . 0 ) ( * ) ( 5 . 0 ) ( 1 1 + ? ? + + ? = j j j j s Plo s Plo s Plo s Plo ( 4 ) where , Plo *( s j ) is the polarity score of S j ( Following Equation 3 ) but ignore the contribution of testing adjectives while 0.5 are empirical weights .
Step 9 .
After all of the polarities of known CDSWs in the training data are determined , update the collocation set by identifying cooccurred pairs with consistent sentiment .
Step 10 .
Repeat Step 5 to Step 9 to re-estimate the sentiment of CDSWs and expand the collocation set , until the collocation set converge .
In this way , the seed collocation set is further expanded and their sentiment characteristics are obtained .
Sentiment Adjectives Classifier
We incorporate the following 8 groups of features in a linear-kernel two -class SVM classifier to classify the sentences with sentiment adjectives into positive or negative : ( 1 )
The presence of known positive / negative opinion indicator and opinion operator ( 2 ) The presence of known positive / negative CFSW ( 3 )
The presence of known positive / negative CDSW ( exclude the testing adjectives ) ( 4 ) The presence of known positive / negative adjective - target bi-gram collocations ( 5 ) The presence of known positive / negative adjective - target n-gram collocations ( 6 ) The coverage of context words surrounding the adjectives in the context words in training positive / negative sentences ( 7 ) The sentiment of - 1 sentence ( 8 )
The sentiment of + 1 sentence
The classifier is trained by using the sentences with determined sentiment which is obtained in the semi-supervised learning stage .
Evaluations and Conclusion
The ACL-SEMEVAL task 18 testing dataset contains 14 ambiguous adjectives and 2,917 instances .
HITSZ_CITYU group submitted three runs .
Run-1 and Run - 2 are two runs corresponding to the improved system and Run - 3 is the baseline system .
The achieved performances are listed in Table 1 .
It is observed that the improved systems achieve promising results which is obviously higher than the baseline .
They are ranked 1 st and 2 nd in Macro Accuracy evaluation and 2 nd and 3 rd in Micro Accuracy evaluation among 16 submitted runs , respectively .
Run ID Marco Accuracy
Conclusion
In this paper , we proposed similarity - based and semi-supervised based methods to expand the adjective - target seed collocation set .
Meanwhile , we incorporate both inner-sentence ( collocations and context words ) and inter-sentence features in a two -class SVM classifier for the disambiguation of sentiment adjectives .
The achieved promising results show the effectiveness of collocation features , context words features and sentiment of neighboring sentences .
Furthermore , we found that the neighboring sentence sentiments are important features for the disambiguation of sentiment ambiguous adjectives , which is obviously different from the traditional word sense disambiguation that emphasize the innersentence features .
1 ) Context features include bag of words within context in window of [ - 5 , + 5 ]
( 2 ) Collocation features contain bi-grams in window [ - 5 , + 5 ] ( 3 ) Collocation features contain n-grams in window [ - 5 , + 5 ]
In our research , SVM with linear kernel is employed and the open source SVM package - LIBSVM is selected for the implementation .
