title
LSIS at SemEval- 2017 Task 4 : Using Adapted Sentiment Similarity Seed Words For English and Arabic Tweet Polarity Classification
abstract
We present , in this paper , our contribution in SemEval2017 task 4 : " Sentiment Analysis in Twitter " , subtask A : " Message Polarity Classification " , for English and Arabic languages .
Our system is based on a list of sentiment seed words adapted for tweets .
The sentiment relations between seed words and other terms are captured by cosine similarity between the word embedding representations ( word2vec ) .
These seed words are extracted from datasets of annotated tweets available online .
Our tests , using these seed words , show significant improvement in results compared to the use of Turney and Littman 's ( 2003 ) seed words , on polarity classification of tweet messages .
Introduction Sentiment Analysis aims to obtain feelings expressed as positive , negative , neutral , or even expressed with different strength or intensity levels .
One of the well known extracting sentiment approaches is the lexicon - based approach .
A sentiment lexicon is a list of words and phrases , such as excellent , awf ul and not bad , each is being assigned with a positive or negative score reflecting its sentiment polarity .
Therefore , sentiment lexicon provides rich sentiment information and forms the foundation of many sentiment analysis systems ( Liu , 2012 ) .
Our system is based on one of the most significant sentiment lexicon classification methods introduced by Turney and Littman ( 2003 ) .
The method is inspired by the semantic similarity measuring and applied to the sentiment analysis field as a sentiment similarity measuring .
In a similar method , Kanayama and Nasukawa ( 2006 ) worked on detecting a word 's sentiment polarity by measuring the difference between its sentiment similarity with a positive seed word and a negative seed word , respectively .
This method achieves better results with larger corpora , where there are more chances to find the word ( to be classified ) near the positive and negative seed words .
In SemEval2017 task 4 , we 're working with tweets which will lead to deal with slang words and informal phrases .
Therefore , the classic seed words suggested by Turney and Littman ( 2003 ) , listed below in Table 1 , will not be very suitable .
For example , the word Superior is rarely used in the modern " social media " English , and it is barely found in tweets compared to other seed words .
In the tweets dataset of sentiment 140 ( Go et al. , 2009 ) , the word Superior is used 42 times , but the word N ice is used 23563 times .
Thus , for the English tweets polarity classification task , we use the adapted for tweets seed words extracted in our previous work ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) .
And for the Arabic tweets polarity classification task , we apply the same method as in ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) to extract Arabic seed words adapted for tweets , to be used in our system .
positive negative good , nice , bad , nasty , excellent , positive , poor , negative fortunate , correct , unfortunate , wrong , superior .
inferior .
Table 1 : The classic seed words suggested by Turney and Littman ( 2003 ) .
Related Work
The use of seed words was the base of many sentiment analysis experiments , some used the concept with supervised or semi-supervised methods .
For example , Ju et al . ( 2012 ) worked on a semisupervised method for sentiment classification that aims to train a classifier with a small number of labeled data ( called seed data ) .
Some other experiments used the concept with unsupervied methods which reduces the need of annotated training data .
For example Turney ( 2002 ; 2003 ) , which used statistical measures to calculate the similarities between words and a list of 14 seed words ( Table 1 ) , such as point wise mutual information ( PMI ) .
But we should note that Turney 's seed words were manually selected based on restaurant reviews , which have different nature than tweets .
Also we find that Maas et al . ( 2011 ) used the concept as " bag of words " but with cosine similarity measure on word embedding .
Our previous work ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) was on sentiment intensity prediction of tweets segments using SemEval2016 Task7 1 data .
We extracted new seed words as more adapted for tweets seed words .
We retrieved the most frequent words in Sentiment140 ( Go et al. , 2009 ) and then manually filtered the list to eliminate the neutral words .
Our tests in ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) showed the efficiency of the new seed words over Turney 's 14 seed words .
Also , they showed that using cosine similarity measure of word embedding representations ( word2vec ) yields better results than using statistical measures like PMI to calculate the similarities between words .
Therefore , and based on the above experiments , we decide to use for our system cosine similarity measure of word embedding representations , but also to use the adapted for tweets seed words from ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) .
Even though the Arabic language processing faces more challenges than the English language , since words can have transitional meanings depending on position within a sentence and the type of sentence ( verbal or nominal ) ( Farra et al. , 2010 ) , we can still find some interesting experiments in lexical - based sentiment analysis : El-Beltagy and Ali ( 2013 ) built a sentiment lexicon based on a manually constructed seed sentiment lexicon of 380 words .
Using this lexicon , with assigned sentiment intensity score for each value , they were able to calculate the sentiment orientation for a set of tweets in Arabic language ( Egyptian dialect ) .
Another paper by Eskander and Rambow ( 2015 ) presented a large list of sentiment lexicon for Arabic language 1 http://alt.qcri.org/semeval2016/task7/ called SLSA where each value is associated with a sentiment intensity score .
The scores were assigned due to a link created between the English annotation of each Arabic entry to a synset from SentiWordNet ( Cambria et al. , 2010 ) .
For our system in Arabic language , we are following the same method as the system in English language .
But since there is no previously created list of adapted for tweets seed words , we create the list following the same method in ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) , and then use it with cosine similarity measure of word embedding representations .
3 Adapted seed words
English seed words
In ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) , seed words were extracted from Sentiment140 dataset ( Go et al. , 2009 ) .
For the positive seeds , a list of the most frequent words in Sentiment140 positive tweets is retrieved and then manually filtered to eliminate the neutral words , and the same is applied for negative seeds .
The list of English seed words adapted to tweets is as shown in Table 2 . Table 2 : The Tweets Adapted English seed words ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) .
Arabic seed words
The Arabic language 's experiences , in lexicalbased sentiment analysis , were mostly oriented to sentiment lexicons than to seed words .
Large lists of sentiment lexicons were built and used for sentiment analysis .
For our system , we create a list of seed words following almost the same method as in ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) .
We search for the most common words in positive tweets and in negative tweets from two annotated corpora of Ara-bic tweets ( Arabic Sentiment Tweets Dataset 2 and Twitter data-set for Arabic Sentiment Analysis 3 ) .
Then , to filter the list and to eliminate the neutral words , we use Mohammad et al . 's ( 2016 ) list .
That list contain 240 positive and negative words of modern standard Arabic , therefore and due to Arabic dialects variety , using that list to filter will create a list of seed words in modern standard Arabic but adapted for tweets , and it can be used independently of dialects .
The list of Arabic seed words adapted for tweets is as shown in Table 3 .
System of Sentiment classification Our System is based on sentiment similarity cosine measure with Word Embedding representations ( word2vec ) .
For the English language , we use twitter word2vec model by Godin et al ( Godin et al. , 2015 ) , since best results were achieved using that model in sentiment intensity prediction with the adapted seed words ( Htait et al. , 2017 ) .
This model is a word2vec model trained on 400 millions tweets in English language and it has word representations of dimensionality 400 .
For the Arabic language , there is no twitter word2vec 2 http://www.mohamedaly.info/datasets/astd 3 https://archive.ics.uci.edu model available online ( to the best of our knowledge ) .
Therefore , we collect 42 millions tweets in Arabic language from archived twitter streams 4 to create our twitter word2vec model .
In Figure 1 , we have the work flow of our system for tweets sentiment classification .
First , each tweet is cleaned by removing links , user names , stop words , numeric tokens and characters except the common emoticons : " :- ) " , " :-( " , " : ) " , " : ( " , " :'( " .
Also , words with repetitive characters are replaced by the corrected ones ( e.g. coooool by cool ) .
After that , the tweet is segmented into tokens or words .
The similarity between each word with positive seed words and negative seed words is calculated using gensim tool 5 with the previously mentioned word2vec models for both languages English and Arabic .
Having the sentiment score of each word in a tweet , we aggregate by sum to combine these values .
The final score specify the tweet 's polarity .
After many tests on old SemEval data ( task " Message Polarity Classification " of 2013 and 2014 ) , we found that the best scores achieved are by considering the following : if the score is higher than 1 , the tweet is considered positive , else if the score is lower than - 2 , the tweet is considered negative , else it is considered neutral .
To test the efficiency of the adapted seed words on tweets polarity classification , we apply our system on SemEval data for the task : " Sentiment Analysis in Twitter " of years 2013 6 and 2014 7 , using Turney 's seed words ( in Table1 ) , and the adapted seed words .
The Table 4 , along with the results , shows clearly how the use of the adapted for tweets seed words increase the results compared to Turney 's seed words .
The results of our participation at SemEval2017 Task4 ( subtask A ) for English and Arabic lan - guages are in Table 5 , with the best results accomplished in the subtask A. Table 5 : The results at semEval2017
Task 4 subtask A - for English and Arabic Languages .
Conclusion
In this paper , we present our contribution in Se-mEval2017 task4 : Sentiment Analysis in Twitter , subtask A : Message Polarity Classification , for English and Arabic languages .
Our system is based on a list of sentiment seed words adapted for tweets , used in sentiment similarity cosine measure with word embedding representations ( word2vec ) .
Although the results are encouraging , further investigation is required concerning the detection of negations ( e.g. not ) and intensifiers ( e.g. very ) in the tweets , due to their big effect on reversing the polarity of a tweet .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : The work flow of tweets sentiment classification .
