title
NLG301 at SemEval-2017
Task 5 : Fine - Grained Sentiment Analysis on Financial Microblogs and News
abstract
Short length , multi-targets , target relationship , monetary expressions , and outside reference are characteristics of financial tweets .
This paper proposes methods to extract target spans from a tweet and its referencing web page .
Total 15 publicly available sentiment dictionaries and one sentiment dictionary constructed from training set , containing sentiment scores in binary or real numbers , are used to compute the sentiment scores of text spans .
Moreover , the correlation coefficients of the price return between any two stocks are learned with the price data from Bloomberg .
They are used to capture the relationships between the interesting target and other stocks mentioned in a tweet .
The best result of our method in both subtask are 56.68 % and 55.43 % , evaluated by evaluation method 2 .
Introduction
Nowadays the discussion of finance on social media such as twitter reveals the feeling of a market in some degrees .
Market sentiment analysis becomes an important financial technology in trading strategies ( Kazemian , 2014 ) .
Financial tweet sentiment classification differs from traditional sentiment classification in several ways .
Firstly , the sentiment degree is a real number rather than discrete numbers such as 1 ( positive ) , 0 ( neutral ) , and - 1 ( negative ) .
Secondly , a financial tweet usually concerns multiple targets .
In the tweet , " Oil To Break Out : Adding Chevron https://t.co/IrZkAVxjiE
$ AXP $ CLGRF $ CSCO $ ERX $ IBM $ MCD $ SSRI $ VLO $ WMT $ XOM $ CVX " , all companies denoted by the cashtag $ ticker - symbol share only one description .
The activity , oil to break out , is a good news for energy companies , but may be bad for shipping companies .
Domain knowledge about the targets is necessary for suitable interpretation in this case .
Thirdly , numbers in the financial tweets are quite important .
In the tweet , " MarketWatch : RT wmwitkowski : Guess who sold off about $ 800 million in $ MDLZ after losing about $ 1 billion on $ VRX ???
https://t.co/SHiJutyenv " , large number means more negative .
In contrast , in the tweet ( named T1 hereafter ) , " $ AAPL now up 2.2 % w/ div since my original call , while $ SPY up only 0.6 % even w / this Fri's div .
# EMH be damned .
Still holding " , the larger the number is , the more positive score the target will get .
The activity related to numbers determines the polarity and its degree .
Fourthly , sentiment scores depend on the activity of the companies , and their relationships , e.g. , the adversarial relation versus the cooperate relation .
In the tweet , " Report : Apple signs up for Google 's cloud , uses much less of Amazon 's $ AAPL $ GOOG $ GOOGL $ AMZN $ DROPB https://t.co/zN3KDGYvGT " , $ AAPL $ GOOGL $ AMZN and $ DROPB are assigned sentiment scores 0.15 , 0.443 , - 0.38 and - 0.213 , respectively , by human annotators because Amazon and Dropbox are two competitors of Google in the cloud market .
This paper explores various types of features selected from the text span related to the interesting targets for fine - grained financial tweet sentiment classification .
Both human and machine labelled text spans are used and compared .
This paper is organized as follows .
Section 2 surveys the related work .
Section 3 presents the identification of text spans and extraction of features from them .
Section 4 shows and discusses the experimental results .
Section 5 concludes the remarks .
Go et al . ( 2009 ) employ Na?ve Bayes , Maximum Entropy , and SVM to classify sentiment of Twitter messages to positive , neutral , and negative categories .
Usernames , usage of links and repeated letters are taken as features .
Jiang et al. ( 2011 ) consider target- dependent features and related tweets in the target- dependent Twitter sentiment classification , and achieve an accuracy of 68.2 % .
The sentiments of the tweets are still discrete , i.e. , positive , negative , or neutral .
Takala et al. ( 2014 ) develop an evaluation dataset for topic-specific sentiment analysis in financial and economic domain , where financial news are sampled from Thomson Reuters newswire .
Each news story is annotated by 7 - point scale from very positive to very negative .
The SemEval - 2017
Task 5 deals with fine- grained sentiment analysis on financial microblogs and news .
Financial tweets and news headlines are taken as evaluation data .
Related Work
This paper is different from the above coarsegrained approaches .
Multi-targets in a short text is one of the major issues to be tackled .
We will find the sentiment of an interesting target in a tweet
Features
The twitter dataset in SemEval - 2017
Task 5 is used in this study .
It consists of 1,539 financial tweets .
Total 55.6 % of tweets contain more than one target .
The sentiment scores of the targets in a tweet are labeled into the real numbers between - 1 to 1 by 3 experts .
Figure 1 shows the structure of a financial tweet .
The following sections will discuss how to extract features from each component .
The 21 features used in the experiments are shown in Table 1 .
Text Span
In the SemEval - 2017 dataset , experts labeled a " text span " for each target .
In the tweet T1 specified in Section 1 , the spans " $ SPY up only 0.6 % , Still holding " and " now up 2.2 % , Still holding " are assigned to $ SPY and $ AAPL , respectively .
Besides human- annotated text span , we also explore two span determination algorithms shown as follows .
Here , we collect a mapping table of tickers and company names from Bloomberg , and use it to find the canonical form of the company mentions in a tweet .
( 1 ) Position - based approach ( EP ) First , a tweet will be separated into sentences .
Then , the sentence containing the cashtag or the company name of a target is deemed as the span for the target .
The sentence without any company names or cashtags will be regarded as the span for all targets shown in the tweet .
Here , a hashtag is regarded as a word .
( 2 ) Dependency - based approach ( 2.1 ) Stanford Parser ( ED - S ) A tweet is parsed by Stanford dependency parser ( Marneffe , 2006 ) .
To reduce the effects of out of vocabulary ( OOV ) words in parsing , cashtags and company names are replaced by common names like " Bob " .
A dependency tree for n-word tweet is composed of n triples in the form of dep( word i , word j ) , where word i and word j has a dependency dep , word i is a parent of word j , and word j is a child of word i .
We take the ancestors and the decedents of a target as its span .
( 2.2 ) TweeboParser ( ED - T ) TweeboParser is a dependency parser , designed for tweets ( Kong et al. , 2014 ) .
It tries to deal with the following challenges : token selection , multiword expressions , multiple roots , and structure within noun phrases .
The multiple roots property tends to provide shorter span than ED -S with the same extracted algorithm .
The average length of the tweets , manual spans , EP spans , ED -S and ED -T spans are 17.61 , 6.26 , 12.17 , 10.27 , and 7 .78 words , respectively .
Compared with 140 - character word limit in twitter , a financial tweet is very short .
In particular , manual spans are much shorter .
Besides text span in tweets , tweets may contain URLs as reference ( shown in Figure 1 ) .
To collect as much information as possible , we parse the web page designated by the URL and retrieve the sentences containing the target .
Those sentences are considered as additional text for sentiment classification .
Table 2 shows the example of span for the single target case : " $ ATVI ooks pretty bullish for now .
from a short-term perspective , it 's got a good chance of maybe sliding back to 33.70 # stocks # investing "
Table 3 shows the example of span for : " Report : Apple signs up for Google 's cloud , uses much less of Amazon 's $ AAPL $ GOOG $ GOOGL $ AMZN $ DROPB https://t.co/zN3KDGYvGT "
The target of span is $ AAPL .
As shown in the above two examples , ED -T method provides the shortest span and extracts the span more similar to Manual span .
The extract results may sometimes include all words in tweet .
Manual ooks pretty bullish for now EP '$ ATVI ooks pretty bullish for now . ' , ' from a short- term perspective ' , " it 's got a good chance of maybe sliding back to 33.70 # stocks # investing " ED -S Bob ooks pretty bullish for now from a short term perspective it s got a good chance of maybe sliding back to 33 70 stocks investing ED - T $ atvi ooks pretty bullish for now
Ensemble of Sentiment Dictionaries
In the lexicon- based sentiment analysis , the sentiment score of a text span is determined by the sentiment scores of the sentiment words it contains .
We use the max or the average of the sentiment scores of the related words as the features shown in Table 1 .
Total 15 sentiment dictionaries of two forms , real value and binary , are consulted .
In addition to the publicly available dictionaries , we also construct a sentiment dictionary from the training set automatically .
( 1 ) Real value : SentiWordNet ( 2 ) Binary ( 1 for positive , - 1 for negative ) : NRC Word-Emotion Association Lexicon , Macquarie Semantic Orientation Lexicon SentiWordNet is quite different from the other sentiment dictionaries in the above .
Words of different senses are assigned different sentiment scores .
In the experiments , we use Babelfy ( Moro et al. , 2014 ) to disambiguate the word senses before consulting SentiWordNet .
We separated all words in training set , then counted the average sentiment score for each word to construct the other sentiment dictionary .
Manual Report : Apple signs up for Google 's cloud EP Report : Apple signs up for Google 's cloud , uses much less of Amazon 's ED -S Report Bob signs up for Google s cloud uses much less ED - T apple signs up for google 's cloud
Numbers and Relationships
As described in Section 1 , numbers such as monetary expressions are important cues for analyzing financial tweets .
We use the position between a target and numbers to decide which number in a tweet is related to a target , and calculate the ratio of this number and sum of all numbers mentioned in the tweet as a feature .
In finance , the correlation coefficient of the price return between two stocks has been used to capture their relationship .
We calculate the correlation coefficients by the stock prices during 2015/01/01 to 2016/10/31 downloaded from Bloomberg , and use them to compute the geometric mean of the absolute value of the correlation coefficients between the interesting target and other stocks in a tweet .
The sign of this feature depends on the plurality voting .
Experimental Results
In coarse- grained classification , we classify the sentiment of a given target mentioned in a tweet into positive , negative , or neutral .
The SVM model with the proposed 21 features are used .
In fine- grained classification , we predict the sentiment score of the given target in real number .
The SVR is adopt for this task .
Both model followed the default parameters used in python Scikit-learn ( Pedregosa et al. , 2011 )
Accuracy and cosine similarity are used to measure the performance of the coarse-grained and the fine- grained tasks , respectively .
The ground truth is represented as a vector of targets ' sentiment scores in cosine measurement .
Four-fold cross-validation is conducted .
Table 4 shows the experimental Using manual spans achieves the ideal performance because the critical text span for the target is known beforehand .
Using EP spans is better than using the complete tweet , but worse than using manual spans .
The performance of the ED-S Span approach does not meet our original expectation due to the noise results in dependency parsing in tweets , which are usually incomplete sentences .
The ensemble of the first five methods show in Table 4 show the best accuracy in the 4 - fold validation for both coarse-grained and fine- grained case .
Table 4 . Experimental Results
Although ED -T method provides the span whose average length is the closest to manual span , it gets the worse accuracy .
It 's worth to leave no stone unturned .
We leave this part in the future works .
Due to the limited amount of submission , we submit two test results : manual span and the ensemble .
The final result for the SemEval - 2017
Task 5 by cosine similarity are 35.66 % and 38.28 % , and by evaluation method 2 4 are 55.34 % and 56.68 % , as the test of 4 - fold validation that ensemble result got the best accuracy .
The same dictionaries and SVR model are used to subtask 2 , using the news headline data .
The best result is 55.43 % using evaluation method 2 .
Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper , we analyze the specific properties of the financial tweets , and propose methods to extract features from a tweet and its mentioned URL .
We illustrate some of the challenges of analyzing financial tweets .
For the multi-targets problem , in order to extract the specific part of tweet for the target , we provide three methods , making the process automatically .
The comparison of " spans " similarity will be provided in the future works .
Moreover , we will also handle the number and the relationship between targets more precisely .
