title
Detecting Turnarounds in Sentiment Analysis : Thwarting
abstract
Thwarting and sarcasm are two uncharted territories in sentiment analysis , the former because of the lack of training corpora and the latter because of the enormous amount of world knowledge it demands .
In this paper , we propose a working definition of thwarting amenable to machine learning and create a system that detects if the document is thwarted or not .
We focus on identifying thwarting in product reviews , especially in the camera domain .
An ontology of the camera domain is created .
Thwarting is looked upon as the phenomenon of polarity reversal at a higher level of ontology compared to the polarity expressed at the lower level .
This notion of thwarting defined with respect to an ontology is novel , to the best of our knowledge .
A rule based implementation building upon this idea forms our baseline .
We show that machine learning with annotated corpora ( thwarted / nonthwarted ) is more effective than the rule based system .
Because of the skewed distribution of thwarting , we adopt the Areaunder - the - Curve measure of performance .
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first attempt at the difficult problem of thwarting detection , which we hope will at least provide a baseline system to compare against .
Introduction
Although much research has been done in the field of sentiment analysis ( Liu et al. , 2012 ) , thwarting and sarcasm are not addressed , to the best of our knowledge .
Thwarting has been identified as a common phenomenon in sentiment analysis ( Pang et al. , 2002 , Ohana et al. , 2009 , Brooke , 2009 in various forms of texts but no previous work has proposed a solution to the problem of identifying thwarting .
We focus on identifying thwarting in product reviews .
The definition of an opinion as specified in Liu ( 2012 ) is " An opinion is a quintuple , ( , , , , ) , where is the name of an entity , is an aspect of , is the sentiment on aspect of entity , is the opinion holder , and is the time when the opinion is expressed by . "
If the sentiment towards the entity or one of its important attribute contradicts the sentiment towards all other attributes , we can say that the document is thwarted .
A domain ontology is an ontology of various features pertaining to a domain , arranged in a hierarchy .
Subsumption in this hierarchy implies that the child is a part or feature of the parent .
Domain ontology has been used by various works in NLP ( Saggion et al. , 2007 and Polpinij et al. , 2008 ) .
In our work , we use domain ontology of camera .
We look upon thwarting as the phenomenon of reversal of polarity from the lower level of the ontology to the higher level .
At the higher level of ontology the entities mentioned are the whole product or a large critical part of the product .
So while statements about entities at the lower level of the ontology are on " details " , statements about entities at higher levels are on the " big picture " .
Polarity reversal from details to the big picture is at the heart of thwarting .
The motivation for our study on thwarting comes from the fact that : a) Thwarting is a challenging NLP problem and b) Special ML machinery is needed in view of the fact that the training data is so skewed .
Additionally large amount of world and domain knowledge maybe called for to solve the problem .
In spite of the relatively fewer occurrence of the thwarting phenomenon the problem poses an intellectually stimulating exercise .
We may also say that in the limit , thwarting approaches the very difficult problem of sarcasm detection ( Tsur et al. 2010 ) .
We start by defining and understanding the problem of thwarting in section 2 .
In section 3 , we describe a method to create the domain ontology .
In section 4 , we propose a na?ve rule based approach to detect thwarting .
In section 5 we discuss a machine learning based approach which could be used to identify whether a document is thwarted or not .
This is followed by experimental results in section 6 .
Section 7 draws conclusions and points to future work .
Definition
Thwarting is defined by Pang et al. , ( 2008 ) as follows : " Thwarted expectations basically refer to the phenomenon wherein the author of the text first builds up certain expectations for the topic , only to produce a deliberate contrast to the earlier discussion . "
For our computational purposes , we define thwarting as : " The phenomenon wherein the overall polarity of the document is in contrast with the polarity of majority of the document . "
This definition emphasizes thwarting as piggybacking on sentiment analysis to improve the latter 's performance .
The current work however only addresses the problem of whether a document is thwarted or not and does not output the sentiment of the document .
The basic block diagram for our system is shown in figure 1 .
An example of a thwarted document is : " I love the sleek design .
The lens is impressive .
The pictures look good but , somehow this camera disappoints me .
I do not recommend it . "
While thwarting occurs in various forms of sentiment bearing texts , it is not a very frequent one .
It accounts for hardly 1 - 2 % of any given corpus .
Thus , it becomes hard to find sufficient number of examples of thwarting to train a classifier .
Since thwarting is a complex natural language phenomenon we require basic NLP tools and resources , whose accuracy in turn can affect the overall performance of a thwarting detection system .
Building domain ontology Domain ontology comprises of features and entities from the domain and the relationships between them .
The process thus has two steps , viz . ( a ) identify the features and entities , and ( b ) connect them in the form of a hierarchy .
We decided to use a combination of review corpora mining and manual means for identifying key features .
Our approach to building the domain ontology is as follows : Step 1 : We use Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( LDA ) ( Blei et al. , 2003 ) on a corpus containing reviews of a particular product ( camera , in our case ) to identify key features from the domain .
The output is then analyzed manually to finally select the key features .
Some additional features get added by human annotator to increase the coverage of the ontology .
For Example , in the camera domain , the corpus may include words Thwarting Detection System Input Document Thwarted or Not - Thwarted like memory , card , gb , etc. but , may not contain the word storage .
The abstract concept of storage is contributed by the human annotator through his / her world knowledge .
Step 2 : The features thus obtained are arranged in the form of a hierarchy by a human annotator .
Figure 2 : Ontology for the camera domain
A rule based approach to thwarting recognition
As per the definition of thwarting , most of the thwarted document carries a single sentiment ; however , a small but critical portion of the text , carrying the contrary sentiment , actually decides the overall polarity .
The critical statement , thus , should be strongly polar ( either positive or negative ) , and it should be on some critical feature of the product .
From the perspective of the domain ontology , the sentiment towards the overall product or towards some critical feature mentioned near the root of the ontology should be opposite to the sentiment towards features near the leaves .
Based on these observations we propose the following na?ve approach to thwarting detection :
For each sentence in a review to be tested 1 .
Get the dependency parse of the sentence .
This step is essential .
It makes explicit the adjective noun dependencies , which in turn uncovers the sentiment on a specific part or feature of the product .
2 . Identify the polarities towards all nouns , using the dependency parse and sentiment lexicons .
3 . If a domain feature , identified using the domain ontology , exists in the sentence , annotate / update the ontology node , containing the feature , using the polarity obtained .
Once the entire review is processed , we obtain the domain ontology , with polarity marking on nodes , for the corresponding review .
The given review is thwarted if there is a contradiction of sentiment among different levels of the domain ontology with polarity marking on nodes .
The sentiment lexicons used are SentiWord - Net ( Esuli et al. , 2006 ) , Taboada ( Taboada et al. , 2004 ) , BL lexicon ( Hu et al. , 2004 ) and Inquirer ( Stone et al. , 1966 ) .
The procedure is illustrated by an example .
" I love the sleek design .
The lens is impressive .
The pictures look good but , somehow this camera disappoints me .
I do not recommend it . "
A part of the ontology , with polarity marking on nodes , for this example is shown in figure 3 . Based on this ontology we see that there is an opposition of sentiment between the root ( " camera " ) and the lower nodes .
We thus determine that this document is thwarted .
However , since the nodes , within the same level , might have different weighting based upon the product under consideration , this method fails to perform well .
For example , the body and video capability might be subjective whereas any fault in the lens or the battery will render the camera useless , hence they are more critical .
We thus see a need for relative weighting among all features in the ontology .
Cameranegative
Lenspositive
Body Designpositive Display Picturepositive
A Machine Learning based approach Manual fixing of relative weightages for the features of the product is possible , but that would be ad hoc .
We now propose a machine learning based approach to detect thwarting in documents .
It uses the domain ontology to identify key features related to the domain .
The approach involves two major steps namely learning the weights and building a model that classifies the reviews using the learnt weights .
Learning Weights
The weights are learnt using the lossregularization framework .
The key idea is that the overall polarity of the document is determined by the polarities of individual words in the document .
Since , we need to find the weights for the nodes in the domain ontology ; we consider only the words belonging to the ontology for further processing .
Thus , if P is the polarity of the review and is the polarity associated with word i then ? gives the linear model .
The word i should belong to the ontology as well as the review .
Similarly , the hinge loss is given by where w is the weight vector and x is the feature vector consisting of .
Based on the intuition , that every word contributes some polarity to its parent node in the domain ontology , we also learnt weights on the ontology by percolating polarities towards the root .
We experimented with complete percolation , wherein the polarity at a node is its polarity in the document summed with the polarities of all its descendants .
We also define controlled percolation , wherein the value added for a particular descendant is a function of its distance from the node .
We halved the polarity value percolated , for each edge between the two nodes .
Thus , for the example in figure 2 , the polarity value of camera would be Where is the final polarity for camera and is the polarity of the word ?
{ camera , body , display , design , picture} .
Classifier
We use the SVM classifier with features generated using the following steps .
We first create a vector of weighted polarity values for each review .
This is constructed by generating a value for each word in the domain ontology encountered while reading the review sequentially .
The value is calculated by multiplying the weight , found in the previous step ( 5.1 ) , with the polarity of the word as determined from the sentence .
Since , these vectors will be of different dimensionality for each review , we extract features from these reviews .
These features are selected based on our understanding of the problem and the fact that thwarting is a function of the change of polarity values and also the position of change .
The Features extracted are : Document polarity , number of flips of sign ( i.e. change of polarity from positive to negative and vice versa ) , the maximum and minimum values in a sequence , the length of the longest contiguous subsequence of positive values ( LCSP ) , the length of the longest contiguous subsequence of negative values ( LCSN ) , the mean of all values , total number of positive values in the sequence , total number of negative values in the sequence , the first and the last value in the sequence , the variance of the moving averages , the difference in the means of LCSP and LCSN .
Results
Experiments were performed on a dataset obtained by crawling product reviews from Amazon 1 . We focused on the camera domain .
We obtained 1196 reviews from this domain .
The reviews were annotated for thwarting , i.e. , thwarted or non-thwarted as well as polarity .
The reviews crawled were given to three different annotators .
The instructions given for annotation were as follows : 1 . Read the entire review and try to form a mental picture of how sentiment in the document is distributed .
Ignore anything that is not the opinion of the writer .
2 . Try to determine the overall polarity of the document .
The star rating of the document can be used for this purpose .
3 . If the overall polarity of the document is negative but , most of the words in the document indicate positive sentiment , or vice versa , then consider the document as thwarted .
Since , identifying thwarting is a difficult task even for humans , we calculated the Cohen 's kappa score ( Cohen 1960 ) in order to determine the inter annotator agreement .
It was found out to be 0.7317 .
The annotators showed high agreement ( 98 % ) in the non-thwarted class whereas they agreed on 70 % of the thwarted documents .
Out of the 1196 reviews , exactly 21 were thwarted documents , agreed upon by all annotators .
We used the Stanford Core NLP tools 2 ( Klein et al. , 2003 , Toutanova et al. , 2003 for basic NL processing .
The system was tested on the entire dataset .
Since , the data is highly skewed ; we used Area under the Curve ( AUC ) for the ROC curve as the measure of evaluation ( Ling et al. , 2003 ) .
The AUC for a random baseline is expected to be 50 % , and the rule based approach is close to the baseline ( 56.3 % ) .
Table 1 shows the results for the experiments with the machine learning model .
We used the CVX 3 library in Matlab to solve the optimization problem for learning weights and the LIBSVM 4 library to implement the svm classifier .
In order to account for the data skew , we assign a class weight of 50 ( determined empirically ) to the thwarted instances and 1 for non-thwarted instances in the classifier .
All results were obtained using a 10 fold cross validation .
The same dataset was used for this set of experiments .
We see that the overall system for identification of thwarting performs well for the weights obtained using the linear model with a controlled percolation of polarity values in the ontology .
The system outperforms both the random baseline as well as the rule based system .
These results though great are to be taken with a pinch of salt .
The basic objective for creating a thwarting detection system was to include such a module in the general sentiment analysis framework .
Thus , using document polarity as a feature contradicts the objective of sentiment analysis , which is to find the document polarity .
8 Conclusions and Future Work
We have described a system for detecting thwarting , based on polarity reversal between opinion on most parts of the product and opinion on the overall product or a critical part of the product .
The parts of the product are related to one another through an ontology .
This ontology guides a rule based approach to thwarting detection , and also provides features for an SVM based learning system .
The ML based system scores over the rule based system .
Future work consists in trying out the approach across products and across domains , doing better ontology harnessing from the reviews and investing and searching for distributions and learning algorithms more suitable for the problem .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Basic Block Diagram
Figure 3 : 3 Figure 3 : ontology with polarity marking on nodes : example
Table 1 : 1 Results of the machine learning based approach to thwarting detection Loss type Percolation AUC value for for type for classification weights weights Linear Complete 73 % Controlled 81 % Hinge Complete 70 % Controlled 76 %
Without the docuwww.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm/ ment polarity feature , the values drop by 10 % which is not acceptable .
2 http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/corenlp.shtml
3 http://cvxr.com/cvx 4 http://
Reviews crawled from http://www.amazon.com/
