title
COMMIT at SemEval - 2017 Task 5 : Ontology - based Method for Sentiment Analysis of Financial Headlines
abstract
This paper describes our submission to Task 5 of SemEval 2017 , Fine - Grained Sentiment Analysis on Financial Microblogs and News , where we limit ourselves to performing sentiment analysis on news headlines only ( track 2 ) .
The approach presented in this paper uses a Support Vector Machine to do the required regression , and besides unigrams and a sentiment tool , we use various ontologybased features .
To this end we created a domain ontology that models various concepts from the financial domain .
This allows us to model the sentiment of actions depending on which entity they are affecting ( e.g. , decreasing debt is positive , but decreasing profit is negative ) .
The presented approach yielded a cosine distance of 0.6810 on the official test data , resulting in the 12th position .
Introduction
Many companies in the financial sector are in the business of gathering and selling information , including news and sentiment analysis information , because of the profound influence this has on investor behavior ( Van de Kauter et al. , 2015 ) .
The relation between news and movements in the financial market is intricate , with news influencing the market ( Schuster , 2003 ) as well as the market being a source of news itself .
Price fluctuations of financial instruments can be linked to supply and demand and thus to the desirability of that financial product , which changes when new facts related to this product are published .
Sentiment analysis in the context of financial news headlines aims to capture the change in desirability of a given product .
Assigning a negative sentiment score to a certain news headline for a given product then represents a decrease in desirability and thus a decrease in price for that product , while assigning a positive sentiment has the opposite meaning .
In track 2 of Task 5 at SemEval 2017 ( Cortis et al. , 2017 ) , each news headline contains one or more company names , and for a given company name , the sentiment , modeled as a real number between - 1 and 1 , needs to be determined .
When multiple companies are mentioned , the same sentence can appear multiple times in the data , each time asking for the sentiment with respect to a different company .
In financial headlines , there are two reasons why the expressed sentiment can differ for the various companies that are mentioned .
The first is that expressed sentiment is often opposite for competitors , while the second is that news often reflects on the stock movements of the day mentioning both the biggest winners and biggest losers in the same headline .
Besides directly mentioning the stock movements of a company , news headlines often report on changes with respect to a certain aspect of a company ( e.g. , its profit or debt ) or on actions that influence the company ( e.g. , opening stores or being sued ) .
The expressed sentiment often depends on what particular aspect is in scope .
A decrease in profit , for example , is considered negative , while a decrease in debt is generally considered positive .
The issue of aspect-dependent sentiment is addressed in our approach by classifying aspects and actions in such a way that an ontology reasoner , with the help of a set of class axioms , can infer which sentiment is expressed by a given pair of aspect and ( increase or decrease ) action .
Besides aspect-dependent sentiment expressions , there are also sentiment expressions that always convey a positive ( e.g. , lift or good ) or negative sentiment ( e.g. , drown or bad ) , and those are also stored in the ontology .
The ontology information is used a source of features for the Support Vector Regression model that is employed in our approach .
Hence , we present an approach that is a hybrid between knowledge - based methods and machine learning methods ( Cambria , 2016 ) .
This paper is structured as follows .
In Sect. 2 , the method is presented , followed by an extensive evaluation in Sect .
3 . Conclusions and suggestions for future work are given in Sect.
4 .
Method
At the heart of the method is a Support Vector Regression ( SVR ) model , for which we use the Weka implementation ( Frank et al. , 2016 ; Shevade et al. , 2000 ) .
To provide features that describe the news headline , all headlines are preprocessed using the Stanford CoreNLP library .
This involves tokenization , Part-of - Speech tagging , lemmatization , dependency parsing , and sentiment annotation .
Furthermore , after tokenization , the headlines are scanned for company names that are in the ontology , and all text is set to lowercase .
The company field in the annotations is also linked to a URI in the ontology .
The sentiment tool ( Socher et al. , 2013 ) that is part of the CoreNLP package assigns a sentiment score to various parts of the text ( using the parse tree ) , but for this research we use only the sentiment assigned to the complete headline .
This is a number in the range of - 2 to 2 , but in practice , sentence sentiment tends to be between - 1 and 1 .
Besides the sentiment value , which is a feature for the SVR , we also use the presence or absence of unigrams as features ( i.e. , classical bag-of-words ) , denoting presence with 1 and absence with 0 .
This unigrams plus sentence sentiment forms our baseline method .
Ontology Design
To the baseline method , we add various ontology features .
To that end , we first designed and manually populated an ontology that models expressions in the financial domain ( Schouten et al. , 2017 ) .
The ontology contains four main classes :
Sentiment , modeling mentions of a certain sentiment value , Entity , modeling nouns that represent entities like companies or aspects of entities like profit and debt , Property , modeling adjectives like lower , better , etc. , and Action , representing verbs in the text .
Hence , the ontology is a model of mentions or expressions of the concepts in the financial domain rather than a model of the concepts themselves .
In accordance with the two main polar directions : up or increase , and down or decrease , all subclasses of Entity are split into two groups that correspond to these two directions .
The first group consist of positively oriented entities for which an ' up ' or ' increase ' movement is positive ( e.g. , profit ) .
The second group is comprised of negatively oriented entities for which a ' down ' or ' decrease ' movement is positive ( e.g. , debt ) .
Actions and properties are giving information about some entity and these are divided into four categories .
The first two are aspect-dependent , representing an Increase and Decrease action , while the other two categories represent actions that are inherently Positive and Negative .
Actions in the Increase or Decrease category can only be assigned a sentiment if they are linked with an entity from the ontology , while actions in the two sentiment classes always denote that sentiment value regardless of what entity they affect .
A similar reasoning holds for properties .
An overview of the main ontology classes is given in Figure 1 .
Ontology Features
The presence or absence of subclasses of Entity , Property , and Action , which are the domain components of our ontology , are recorded as additional features for the SVR .
To avoid fitting the model on certain companies that occur in predominantly positive ( or negative ) headlines in this particular set of news headlines , we filter out company name URLs from the set of features .
Ontology concepts are linked to the text by means of lexicalizations that have been added to each non-abstract concept in the ontology .
Once a concept has been found , all its superclasses are also added as features to the SVR model .
Hence , if we find the action Lift , we also add the concepts Action , Positive , and Sentiment , since the concept Lift always denotes a positive sentiment in our domain ontology .
On top of these ontology lookup features , we define a set of class axioms that will allow the reasoner to infer the sentiment of a given combination of an Entity and either a Property or a Action , where the action or property on its own is not already a subclass of Sentiment .
Using the two polar categories of entities ( i.e. , the positively oriented group and the negatively ori-
Besides these general class axioms , we also defined a number of specific axioms that will allow the reasoner to infer the sentiment for certain particular expressions .
For example , closing a deal is considered positive , while closing stores generally is not .
While we could get the right behavior by classifying Store as a positively oriented entity , and Deal as a negatively oriented entity , this did not match with our intuition that a deal is something positive and more deals is not necessarily bad , which is a conclusion that would follow from classifying Deal as a negatively oriented entity .
Hence we have specific axioms that deal with this scenario and the related Open action : 1 . Close Deal Positive 2 . Close CompanyPart Negative
Open CompanyPart Positive
In the above axioms , a CompanyPart is the class that models all parts of a certain company , including things like headquarters , stores , webshops , departments , etc .
An example of the reasoner in action is visualized in Figure 2 .
Company-specific Sentiment
The above model , with all the described ontology features , would still result in a sentence - level sentiment algorithm that would not be able to give dif- ferent sentiment scores for different companies in the same sentence .
Since this problem does appear , we add a company -specific sentiment feature to the feature set .
This feature denotes a positive ( 1 ) , neutral ( 0 ) , or negative ( - 1 ) sentiment score for the company that is mentioned in the company field of the annotation .
Since we already annotated this field with a URL , we can locate the company within the headline .
After that , we use the grammatical dependencies to find all words directly connected to the company .
If these words are either a property or an action , we can use those to compute the company -specific sentiment as we can safely assume that directly connected words in the dependency graph pertain to that company .
Since a company is positively oriented entity , all actions and properties with superclass Decrease or Negative convey a negative sentiment towards the company , while Increase or Positive communicate a positive sentiment .
A positive sentiment is quantified as + 1 , and a negative sentiment is represented by - 1 .
Then , the company -specific sentiment feature is computed as the sum of all sentiment conveying words di-rectly related in the dependency graph to the company mention in the headline .
Evaluation
In this section we evaluate our submission on the training data and report the results obtained on the official test data .
The data consist of news headlines in the financial domain , and each headline is annotated with the name of the target company .
For the training data the target sentiment score is also provided .
Note that the same headline can appear multiple times in the data , each time with a different target company .
On the official test data , a cosine distance of 0.6810 is achieved , resulting in the 12th position .
The feature set experiments have been performed on the training data by running 5 times a 10 - fold cross-validation setup , each time with different random folds , to ensure robust results .
To measure the effect of the various employed ontology features , the method is run with different subsets of all features .
The results of this experiment are reported in Table 1 .
In this way , we can compare the benefit of adding entities , properties , and actions from the ontology , separately .
From the reported results we can see that entities and properties are not particularly useful for sentiment analysis .
For entities , this makes sense , as these convey no sentiment information .
For properties , it is less intuitive , as adjectives , the word types that usually correspond to a subclass of Property from the ontology , are often strong indicators of sentiment ( e.g. , good , bad , etc. ) .
On the other hand , matching verbs in the text to subclasses of Action shows a large improvement to sentiment analysis .
We hypothesize that the division into four categories ( i.e. , Positive , Negative , Increase , and Decrease ) is a meaningful categorization in the domain of financial news .
We observe that verbs are often the central word in conveying information to the reader , and hence , a lot of sentiment information is communicated using this type of concept .
Adding the class axioms to determine the sentiment of combinations with subclasses of Increase and Decrease is also useful , with a 2 % increase compared to not using it .
Adding the company specific sentiment , however , does not seem to help much .
Conclusions
In this work we presented our submission to Task 5 of SemEval 2017 : fine - grained sentiment analysis on financial news headlines ( track 2 ) .
We showed that by categorizing entities ( nouns ) , properties ( adjectives ) , and actions ( verbs ) , and linking them to concepts in an ontology , we can harness the power of the ontology reasoner to infer the sentiment of expressions that indicate a typical up / increase or down / decrease movement .
This is achieved by defining class axioms within the ontology .
In terms of contribution to performance , we can state that the categorization of actions into Positive , Negative , Increase , and Decrease gave the highest increase in performance , followed by adding class axioms for sentiment inference .
For future work , we want to invest more in the company -specific sentiment so we can assign different sentiment values to different companies in the news headline .
Given the fact that headlines often contain companies with opposite sentiment , this is a highly desirable feature to have .
By using a form of spreading activation , we could compute the sentiment for the whole dependency graph , not with respect to the root which would result in the sentence sentiment , but with respect to the node in the graph representing the company .
Negators and other valence shifters can be used to properly spread the sentiment from one node to the next .
" Figure 2 : 2 Figure 2 : A schematic overview of the given reasoning example .
Table 1 : 1 The change in performance when using different feature sets , reporting the average performance on the training data , using 5 runs with 10 fold cross-validation .
Feature sets that are statistically indistinguishable from each other in terms of performance are grouped together avg .
cosine distance st.dev. base ( B ) 0.6311 0.0482 B + entities ( E ) 0.6361 0.0455 B + properties ( P ) 0.6300 0.0478 B + actions ( A ) 0.6815 0.0498 B + E + P + A 0.6883 0.0502 B + E + P + A + 0.7041 0.0450 class axioms B + E + P + A + 0.7050 0.0441 class axioms + company -specific sentiment
