title
Detecting Chronic Critics Based on Sentiment Polarity and User's Behavior in Social Media
abstract
There are some chronic critics who always complain about the entity in social media .
We are working to automatically detect these chronic critics to prevent the spread of bad rumors about the reputation of the entity .
In social media , most comments are informal , and , there are sarcastic and incomplete contexts .
This means that it is difficult for current NLP technology such as opinion mining to recognize the complaints .
As an alternative approach for social media , we can assume that users who share the same opinions will link to each other .
Thus , we propose a method that combines opinion mining with graph analysis for the connections between users to identify the chronic critics .
Our experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms analysis based only on opinion mining techniques .
Introduction
On a social media website , there may be millions of users and large numbers of comments .
The comments in social media are related to the real world in such fields as marketing and politics .
Analyzing comments in social media has been shown to be effective in predicting the behaviors of stock markets and of voters in elections ( Bollen et al. , 2011 ; Tumasjan et al. , 2010 ; O'Connor et al. , 2010 ) .
Because of their effects on the real world , some complaints may harm the reputation of a corporation or an individual and cause serious damage .
Consider a comment such as " Working for Company A is really awful " as an example .
The complaint gives viewers a negative impression of Company A and can increase the number of people who think the company is bad .
Some complaints are expressed by a specific user who is always criticizing a specific target entity ( in this example , Company A ) .
We call this user a chronic critic of that entity , a person who is deliberately trying to harm the reputation of the entity .
That is , a chronic critic is trying to run a negative campaign against the entity .
If the entity is aware of its own chronic critics , then it is able to take prompt action to stop the malicious complaints .
When the complaints are false , the entity can use that defense .
In contrast , if the chronic critics are justified , then the entity should address the concerns to limit the damage .
Hence , to handle malicious rumors , it is important to detect the chronic critics .
However , it is generally quite difficult for a computer to detect a chronic critic 's comments , since especially the comments in social media are often quite informal .
In addition , there are complexities such as sarcasm and incomplete contexts .
For example , if Company A has been involved in a widely recognized fiasco , then some chronic critics might sarcastically write " good job " or " wonderful " about Company A .
They are using positive words , but in the context they are effectively criticizing Company A.
Some chronic critics bash a target entity solely with sarcasm , so they damage the target with positive words .
It is exceedingly difficult to directly detect these chronic critics based on their comments .
In an example of an incomplete context , if one author starts an exchange with a comment such as " The new product from Company A is difficult to use " and another user responds with something like " Fool " , we cannot easily recognize the meaning of this comment as related to " Company A being foolish because the product really is difficult to use " or whether " the user is the fool because the product is easy for other people to use " .
To find chronic critics for a given entity , we need to identify the actual target of the complaints .
Take the comment " Company B is much worse than Company A " for example .
This comment is probably complaining about Company B but not Company A .
In contrast , most of the previous work on sentiment analysis in social media does not consider these kinds of problems ( Barbosa and Feng , 2010 ; Davidov et al. , 2010 ; Speriosu et al. , 2011 ) .
Switching to the behavior of each user , in social media we often see that users who have similar ideas will tend to cooperate with each other .
In fact , previous work suggests that users who have the same opinions tend to create links to each other ( Conover et al. , 2011 b ; Yang et al. , 2012 ) .
Because chronic critics share the purpose of attacking some target 's reputation , they may also decide to cooperate .
For this reason , to detect chronic critics , we believe that information about the connections among users will be effective .
In this paper , we present a method that combines opinion mining based on NLP and graph analysis of the connections among users to recognize the chronic critics .
In the experiments , we demonstrate the difficulty in detecting chronic critics by analyzing only the individual comments .
In addition , we investigate the effectiveness of using the connections between users , i.e. , using the proposed method .
For our experiments , we used Twitter , a popular social media service .
In particular , we focus on Japanese comments on Twitter .
This paper is organized as follows .
Section 2 reviews related work .
Section 3 presents the proposed method which applies the opinion mining and graph analysis .
Section 4 demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method and discusses the experimental results .
Section 5 concludes this paper .
Related Work
In recent years , an interest in opinion mining in online communities has emerged ( Conover et al. , 2011a ; O'Connor et al. , 2010 ; Speriosu et al. , 2011 ; Murakami and Raymond , 2010 ; Barbosa and Feng , 2010 ; Davidov et al. , 2010 ) . O'Connor et al. ( 2010 ) , Barbosa and Feng ( 2010 ) , Davidov et al. ( 2010 ) , and Speriosu et al . ( 2011 ) proposed methods to predict a sentiment polarity ( i.e. , positive or negative ) of a comment in social media .
O'Connor et al. ( 2010 ) studied a subjectivity lexicon .
Barbosa and Feng ( 2010 ) and Davidov et al . ( 2010 ) used machine learning approaches .
Speriosu et al. ( 2011 ) introduced connections between words , emoticons , tags , n-grams , comments and users .
These studies did not identify the target of the polarized sentiment of each comment .
Conover et al. ( 2011a ) proposed a method that predicts the political polarity of a social media user based on the connections between users and tags .
They demonstrated that label propagation on the graph representing the connections between users is effective .
However , this method is not guaranteed to obtain the optimal solution .
In contrast , our research uses graph analysis that converges on the optimal solution .
Murakami and Raymond ( 2010 ) proposed a method that uses the connections between users to predict each user 's opinion , i.e. , support or oppose a topic in online debates .
They analyzed the content of the discussions to infer the connections .
However , in social media , it is difficult to infer connections based on content because of such complexities as incomplete contexts .
To address these problem , we analyzed the behavior of the users to predict the connections between users .
Our task is similar to spammer detection ( Wang , 2010 ; Yang et al. , 2012 ) . Wang ( 2010 ) proposed a method using a classifier to detect spammers .
They used the content in the comments and the number of linked users as features .
Yang et al. ( 2012 ) analyzed spammer communities and demonstrated that spammers closely link to each other in social media .
They also proposed a method that extracts spammers using the connections between users .
While Wang ( 2010 ) and Yang et al . ( 2012 ) required manually annotated data for training or as seeds , we extract the seeds for the graph analysis automatically through opinion mining .
Proposed Method Figure 1 presents an overview of the proposed method .
The proposed method has two phases , opinion mining and graph analysis .
First , we extract a few chronic critics by analyzing the opinions of many users referencing the target entity .
For the opinion mining , we are initially looking for users who strongly criticize the target entity .
In Figure 1 , given Company A as a target entity , we find users " b " and " e " since they said " Working for Company A is really awful " and " This product from Company A is useless " .
However , we may miss the other chronic critics since they used sarcasm and incomplete contexts .
Next , we find the users who are linked to the
Opinion mining Making graph Company A is very very nice .
I use only products of Company A .
I like products of Company A .
The attitude of Company A is perfect .
Company
A always makes shitty produces .
Working for Company A is really awful .
Comments in social media Company B is much worse than Company A . A product of Company A is wonderful .
Fiasco of Company A occurs almost every day .
Company A , good job !
The product from Company A is difficult to use .
This product from Company A is useless .
Company
A is a bad company .
Figure 1 : Overview of proposed method chronic critics that were detected through opinion mining .
We built a graph in which the users are represented by nodes and the links between the users are represented by edges .
We recognize additional chronic critics based on the graph analysis .
In the example of Figure 1 , we find more chronic critics not recognized by the opinion mining , such as " a " and " c " , because they are linked to the chronic critics " b " and " e " .
In this section , we explain the opinion mining and graph analysis .
Since a comment in Twitter is called a tweet , we use the term tweet below .
Why do people praise
Opinion Mining
As defined in Section 1 , we defined a user who frequently criticizes a target entity as a chronic critic .
Therefore , we classify the tweets of each user into critical or non-critical and label any users who complain about the target entity many times as chronic critics .
Because we want to investigate the opinions of each user in public , we analyze public tweets , excluding the private conversations between users .
In Twitter , this means we ignore a reply that is a response to a specific user named username ( written in the format " @username response " ) and QT that is a mention in a quoted tweet from username ( written in the format " mention RT @username : quoted tweet " ) .
We assume a phrase representing negative polarity or profanity to be critical phrases .
The proposed method determines whether a tweet complains about the target entity by investigating a critical phrase and the target of the phrase .
Note that a negative polarity is represented by declinable words or substantives .
We used the sentiment analyzer created by to detect a phrase representing neg - ative polarity by using declinable words .
We used the lexicon collected by Higashiyama et al . ( 2008 ) to find negative polarity in substantives .
For detecting profanity , we use a profane lexicon collected by Ogino et al . ( 2012 ) .
The sentiment analyzer can find not only sentiment phrases but the targets of the phrases based on syntactic parsing and the case frames 1 .
However , because there are many informal tweets and because most users omit the grammatical case in tweets , the sentiment analyzer often fails to capture any target .
To address this problem , in addition to a target extracted by the sentiment analyzer , we obtain a target based on the dependency tree .
We extract nouns in parent and child phrases within distance 2 from a critical phrase in the dependency tree .
Figure 2 shows an example of a Japanese tweet criticizing Company A and its English translation .
The Japanese tweet is split into phrase - like units ( bunsetsu ) .
Each English phrase is linked to the corresponding bunsetsu by a dotted line .
The dependency relationships among the bunsetsu are expressed by the arrows .
In the tweet , the blackedged phrase " awful " is a critical phrase .
We extract the nouns in " Working for " and " Company A is " as targets of the critical phrase since these phrases are parents within distance 2 of the critical phrase .
Therefore , we decide that the tweet is criticizing Company A. Since a chronic critic frequently complains about the target entity , we can predict that most of the tweets written by a chronic critic of the target entity will be critical tweets .
Therefore , we can calculate a ratio of critical tweets for all of the tweets about the target entity .
We score the user u i with equation ( 1 ) .
score i = n i N i ( 1 ) N i is the number of all tweets about the target entity and n i is the number of critical tweets about the entity by that user 2 .
We extract the top M users based on score i as chronic critics .
Graph Analysis
In social media , it is often very difficult to determine whether a tweet is critical since many tweets include sarcasm or incomplete contexts .
The opinion mining may miss numerous complaints with sarcasm or incomplete contexts .
To resolve this problem , we apply user behaviors .
In social media , we assume that users having the same opinion interact with each other in order to demonstrate the correctness of their opinion .
In particular , since the purpose of chronic critics is to spread the bad reputation , we assume that they want to assist each other .
We supplement the opinion mining by a graph analysis using this assumption .
Thus , we make a graph representing connections among the users and use label propagation on the graph based on the results of the opinion mining as the seeds .
In addition , we believe that a user will try to spread user matching opinions .
This implies that a user who spreads the opinion of another of agrees with the author of that opinion .
In Twitter , a user can spread an opinion as an RT , which is a reposting of a tweet by a username ( written in the format " RT @username : tweet " ) .
Conover et al. ( 2011 b ) demonstrated that they can make a graph representing the connections among users who support each others opinions by using RTs .
Hence , an RT expresses a relationship of endorsement .
We also created a graph based on this feature .
Our graph has m users ( U = {u 1 , ... , u m } ) as nodes , where u i connects with u j via an edge that has weight w ij ( 0 ? w ij ? 1 ) and w ij corresponds to the degree to which u i supports u j .
We calculate w ij by using Equation ( 2 ) .
w ij = 1 2 ( r ij R i + r ji R j ) ( 2 ) r ij is the total RT tweets of u j by u i and R i is the number of RTs by u i .
Therefore , the more u i and u j RT each other , the more weight w ij is close to 1 .
In contrast , if u i and u j rarely RT each other , the value of w ij will approach 0 .
In addition , this w ij definition is symmetric means ( i.e. , w ij = w ji ) .
We find more new chronic critics by label propagation on the graph .
We use the chronic critics obtained by the opinion mining as seeds .
It is assumed that a user who supports the target entity is not a chronic critic .
Using this knowledge , we use the account of the target entity as a seed .
The label propagation assigns a confidence score c = ( c 1 , ... , c m ) to each node U = u 1 , ... , u m , where the score is a real number between ?1 and 1 .
A score close to 1 indicates that we are very confident that the node ( user ) is a chronic critic .
A score close to ?1 indicates that we are sure that the node is not a chronic critic .
In addition , the scores of seeds are fixed and cannot be changed .
The scores of chronic critics obtained by the opinion mining are 1 and the score of the target entity is set to ?1 .
To formulate the label propagation as an optimization problem , we used the loss function proposed by Zhu et al . ( 2003 ) , because w ij ?
0 for all i , j. E( c ) = 1 2 ? i , j w ij ( c i ? c j ) 2 ( 3 ) To minimize E( c ) , c i is close to c j when w ij is greater than 0 .
That is , if the users support each other , the scores of the users are close to each other .
Thus , by minimizing E( c ) , we assign the confidence scores considering the results of the opinion mining and agreement relationships among the users .
We find the users that have scores greater than the threshold .
We believe that if the distance between users on the graph is large , then users slightly support each other .
However , we can assign a score of 1 to each node in any subgraph that has chronic critics extracted by the opinion mining to minimize E( c ) if the subgraph does not include the account of the target entity , no matter how far away a node 2011 ) introduced a neutral fact , which decreases each confidence score by considering the distance from the seeds .
The neutral fact has a fixed confidence score 0 and connects with all of the nodes except the seeds .
Suppose u 1 is the neutral fact , U l = {u 2 , ... , u l } is the set of seeds and U t = { u l + 1 , ... , u m } is the set of all nodes except seeds .
To assign the weight of the edge between u 1 and other nodes considering the degrees of the nodes , we calculate the weight by as : w 1 i = { 0 i = 1 , ... , l ? ? j>1 |w ij | i = l + 1 , ... , m ( 4 ) where ? is a small constant .
Thus , the weight is proportional to the total weight of the edges from each node .
Experiments
Experimental Setting
For our experiment , we gathered tweets by using the Twitter search API .
The twitter search API returns the tweets that contain an input query .
We used the name of a target entity , words related to the entity 3 , and the account name of the entity as queries .
In this research , there were two target entities , Company A and Politician A .
We found many critical tweets about these target entities .
The entities have their own accounts in Twitter .
We collected the Japanese tweets for one month .
We want to extract the users who frequently express a public opinion related to a target entity .
For this reason , we eliminated users whose the number of tweets except conversation ( i.e. , reply , QT , RT ) are fewer than 5 .
In addition , to eliminate bots that automatically post specific tweets , we eliminated users whose conversational tweets were fewer than 2 .
We selected some of the remaining users for the experiment .
To satisfy our definition , a chronic critic must tweet about the target entity many times .
Therefore , we focused on the top 300 users based on the number of tweets as our experimental users .
Table 1 shows the total numbers of tweets by the top 300 users , excluding the account of the target entity .
We created an evaluation set by manually dividing the experimental users into chronic critics and regular users .
A chronic critic actively complained and tried to harm the reputation of the target entity .
We also regarded a user who frequently reposted a critic 's tweets and unfavorable news about the target entity as a chronic critic .
For the experimental users tweeting about Company A , we asked two human annotators to judge whether a user was a chronic critic based on one month of tweets .
The Cohen 's kappa value was 0.81 which inter-annotator agreement was good .
We selected the arbitrarily annotating by one of the annotators as our evaluation set .
Table 1 expresses the number of chronic critics for each target entity in the evaluation set .
For the experimental users tweeting about Politician A , we randomly extracted 50 users randomly to calculate Cohen 's kappa , which is displayed in Table 1 .
We evaluated the effects of combining the opinion mining with the graph analysis .
We compared opinion mining ( OM ) , graph analysis ( GA ) , and the combination of opinion mining and graph analysis ( our proposed method ) .
GA randomly selected M users from experimental users as seeds and takes the average of the results obtained by performing label propagation three times .
The number of chronic critics extracted by the opinion mining ( i.e. , the valuable M ) was set to 30 .
The parameter ? , that we use to calculate the weight of the edges connected to neutral fact , was set to 0.1 .
Results
Figure 3 represents the precision and recall of each method for each target entity .
In OM , we varied the threshold from 0 to 0.2 in increments of 0.02 and accepted a user with a score over the threshold as a chronic critic .
In GA , we varied the threshold from 0.35 to 0.8 in increments of 0.05 .
In Figure 3 , the results for Company A and Politician A are quite different , though there are some similar characteristics .
Figure 3 shows that OM achieved high precision but it was difficult to improve the recall .
In contrast , GA easily achieved high recall .
The proposed method achieved high precision similar to OM and high recall .
In other words , the proposed method found many chronic critics while retaining high precision of OM .
Therefore , the combination of the opinion mining and the graph analysis improved the performance of recognizing the chronic critics . ! "#$ % !" & % ! " &$ % ! " $ % ! " $$ % ! " ' % ! " '$ % ! " ( % ! "($ % ! " ) % ! " ) $ % ! % ! " * % ! " + % ! " # % !" & % ! " $ % ! " ' % ! " ( % ! " ) % ! " , % *% Precision Recall OM GA
The proposed method ( a ) Company A ! "#$ ! " # % $ ! " &$ ! " & % $ '$ !$ ! " '$ ! " ($ ! " ) $ ! " *$ ! " % $ ! " +$ ! " , $ ! "#$ ! " &$ '$ Precision Figure 3 shows that the recall of OM was low , which means that OM missed some of the critical tweets .
In this paper , we used domain-independent lexicons to detect the critical phrases .
Therefore , OM failed to find domain-dependent critic phrases such as slang words .
In addition , some chronic critics do not express criticism clearly in their own tweets .
To spread the bad reputation , they reference only a title and link to a webpage that criticizes the target entity such as :
This shows the reality of Company A .
Why do you buy products from this company ?
http://xxx
We believe that is often done because each tweet is limited to 140 characters .
It is difficult to classify the tweet as a complaint based only on its content .
However , the proposed method recognized most chronic critics that complain with these methods based on the GA .
It cannot reasonably be assumed that a user who supports the account of the target entity is a chronic critic .
For this reason , in the graph analysis , we used the entity 's account to recognize noncritics .
We believe that using the account corrects for mistakes in selecting the seed chronic critics .
Table 2 shows the number of users connected with the account .
Table 2 also shows the number of non-critics among the users .
As seen in Table 2 , many non-critics were connected with the account .
Especially for Politician A , most of the non-critics in the evaluation set were connected with the account .
Therefore , incorporating the account into the graph analysis can correct for errors in the seeding of chronic critics .
However , some chronic critics were connected with the target 's account and reposted tweets from the account .
We noticed that they mentioned their negative opinions about the content of such a tweet immediately after reposting that tweet .
Hence , we need to analyze the contexts before and after each RT .
For Politician
A , Table 1 shows that most of the users in the evaluation set criticized the politician .
We were able to find most of the chronic critics by extracting the users linked to each other .
However , for Company A , the precision of GA was low .
This means we need high accuracy in selecting the seeds to correctly capture chronic critics .
Because we used the users extracted by the opinion mining as the seeds , the proposed method outperformed OM and GA .
Conclusion
In this paper , we proposed a method that uses not only opinion mining but graph analysis of the connections between users to detect chronic critics .
In our experiments , we found that the proposed method outperformed each technique .
In our study , we used two entities .
To improve reliability , we should study more entities .
We used a relationship between users that support each other .
However , we suspect that the relationship includes adversaries .
We hope to address these topics in the future .
for Company A is really awful .
Company
A always makes shitty produces .
A product of Company A is useless .
A new product of Company A is difficult to use .
Chronic critics extracted by the opinion mining b e
The graph based on a relationship of agreements Results of the graph analysis
