title
Importance of Self-Attention for Sentiment Analysis
abstract
Despite their superior performance , deep learning models often lack interpretability .
In this paper , we explore the modeling of insightful relations between words , in order to understand and enhance predictions .
To this effect , we propose the Self-Attention Network ( SANet ) , a flexible and interpretable architecture for text classification .
Experiments indicate that gains obtained by self-attention is task - dependent .
For instance , experiments on sentiment analysis tasks showed an improvement of around 2 % when using selfattention compared to a baseline without attention , while topic classification showed no gain .
Interpretability brought forward by our architecture highlighted the importance of neighboring word interactions to extract sentiment .
Introduction Deep neural networks have achieved great successes on numerous tasks .
However , they are often seen as black boxes , lacking interpretability .
Research efforts in order to solve this issue have steadily increased ( Simonyan et al. , 2013 ; Zeiler and Fergus , 2014 ; Bach et al. , 2015 ; Ribeiro et al. , 2016 ; Fong and Vedaldi , 2017 ) .
In language modeling , interpretability often takes place via an attention mechanism in the neural network ( Bahdanau et al. , 2014 ; Xu et al. , 2015 ; Sukhbaatar et al. , 2015 ; Choi et al. , 2017 ) .
In this context , attention essentially allows a network to identify which words in a sentence are more relevant .
Beyond interpretability , this often results in improved decision making by the network .
Recently , Vaswani et al. ( 2017 ) proposed the Transformer architecture for machine translation .
It relies only on attention mechanisms , instead of making use of either recurrent or convolutional *
Authors contributed equally to this work .
neural networks .
This architecture contains layers called self-attention ( or intra-attention ) which allow each word in the sequence to pay attention to other words in the sequence , independently of their positions .
We modified this architecture , resulting in the following contributions : ?
A novel architecture for text classification called Self-Attention Network ( SANet ) that models the interactions between all input word pairs .
It is sequence length - agnostic , thanks to a global max pooling layer .
?
A study on the impact of this self-attention mechanism on large scale datasets .
In particular , we empirically demonstrate the positive impact of self-attention in terms of performance and interpretability for sentiment analysis , compared to topic classification .
In the study , we make use of two quantitative metrics ( Gini coefficient and diagonality ) that exhibit particular behaviors for attention mechanisms in sentiment analysis .
Related Work
The majority of text classification techniques either use convolutional or recurrent neural networks on the words or the characters of the sentence ( Zhang et al. , 2015
Yang et al. , 2016 ; Conneau et al. , 2017 ; Zhang , 2016 , 2017 ; Howard and Ruder , 2018 ) .
One notable exception is the fastText architecture ( Joulin et al. , 2016 ) which essentially employs a bag-of-words approach with word embeddings of the sentence .
Attention mechanisms are a way to add interpretability in neural networks .
They were introduced by Bahdanau et al . ( 2014 ) , where they achieved state - of - the - art in machine translation .
Since then , attention mechanisms have been used in other language modeling tasks such as image captioning ( Xu et al. , 2015 ) , question answer-ing ( Sukhbaatar et al. , 2015 ; Choi et al. , 2017 ) , and text classification ( Yang et al. , 2016 ) .
The concept of self-attention ( Cheng et al. , 2016 ; Parikh et al. , 2016 ) , central to our proposed approach , has shown great promises in natural language processing ;
It produced state - of - the - art results for machine translation ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) .
In text classification , the focus on interpretability has thus far been limited .
Lee et al. ( 2018 ) used a convolutional neural network ( CNN ) with Class Activation Mapping ( CAM ) ( Oquab et al. , 2015 ) to do sentiment analysis .
CAM basically uses the weights of the classification layer to derive a heatmap on the input .
Wang et al. ( 2018 ) used a densely connected CNN ( Huang et al. , 2017 ) to apply attention to n-grams .
However , their approach limits the range and acuteness of the interactions between the words in the text .
and Yang et al . ( 2016 ) both combined an attention mechanism with a recurrent neural network .
The main difference with our work is , while being interpretable , these approaches do not perform true word-on - word attention across a whole sequence such as our self-attention layer .
3 SANet : Self-Attention Network Inspired by the Transformer architecture ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) which performed machine translation without recurrent or convolutional layers , we propose the Self-Attention Network ( SANet ) architecture targeting instead text classification .
One key difference between our approach and Vaswani et al . ( 2017 ) 's is that we only perform input-input attention with self-attention , as we do not have sequences as output but a text classification .
Moreover , we employ global max pooling at the top , which enables our architecture to process input sequences of arbitrary length .
Formally , let X = [ x T 1 ; x T 2 ; . . . ; x T n ] be the concatenation of a sequence of n vectors giving a matrix X ?
R n?d such that x i ?
R d . Vaswani et al. ( 2017 ) defined attention as a function with as input a triplet containing queries Q , keys K with associated values V . Att ( Q , K , V ) = softmax QK T V In the case of self-attention , Q , K and V are linear projections of X .
Thus , we define the dot-product ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) .
The self-attention block is repeated N times .
self-attention mechanism as follows .
Self - Att ( X ) = Att( XW Q , XW K , XW V ) = softmax XW QK X T XW V Where W Q , W K , W V , W QK ? R d?d and W QK = W Q W T K .
Hence , W QK and W V are learned parameters .
Our network ( depicted in Figure 1 ) first encodes each word to its embedding .
Pre-trained embeddings , like GloVe ( Pennington et al. , 2014 ) , may be used and fine-tuned during the learning process .
Next , to inject information about the order of the words , the positional encoding layer adds location information to each word .
We use the positional encoding vectors that were defined by Vaswani et al . ( 2017 ) as follows .
PE pos , 2 i = sin pos 10000 2i/d PE pos ,2 i+1 = cos pos 10000 2i/d
Where pos is the position of the word in the sequence and 1 ? i ? d is the dimension in the positional encoding vector .
A linear layer then performs dimensionality reduction / augmentation of the embedding space to a vector space of dimension d , which is kept constant throughout the network .
It is followed by one or several " self-attention blocks " stacked one onto another .
These blocks are comprised of a selfattention layer followed by a feed-forward network , both with residual connections .
Contrary to Vaswani et al. ( 2017 ) , we only use a single attention head , with attention performed on the complete sequence with constant d-dimensional inputs .
The feed -forward network consists of a single hidden layer with a ReLU . FFN ( x ) = max ( 0 , xW 1 + b 1 ) W 2 + b 2 Where W 1 , W 2 ? R d?d are learned parameters .
The " Add & Norm " layer is a residual connection defined by LayerNorm ( x + SubLayer ( x ) ) , where SubLayer ( x ) is the output of the previous layer and LayerNorm is a layer normalization method introduced by Ba et al . ( 2016 ) .
Let x i be the vector representation of an element in the input sequence .
The normalization layer simply normalizes x i by the mean and the variance of its elements .
Throughout this paper , dropout of 0.1 is applied to the output of SubLayer ( x )
Finally , since we restrict ourselves to classification , we need a fixed - size representation of the sequence before the classification layer .
To achieve this , we apply a global max pooling operation for each dimension across all the n words of the sequence .
That is , if X ?
R n?d , then the max pooling on X outputs a vector in R d .
This technique was inspired by global average pooling introduced by Lin et al . ( 2013 ) for image classification in CNNs .
Global max pooling allows us to handle sequences of any length ( up to memory limitations ) .
Thus , our approach is length - agnostic contrary to some approaches based on CNN , where sequences are truncated or padded to obtain a fixed - length representation .
Experiments
We evaluated our model on seven large scale text classification datasets introduced by Zhang et al . ( 2015 ) , grouped into two kinds of tasks .
The first one is topic classification : AG 's News with 4 classes of news articles , DBPedia with 14 classes of the Wikipedia ontology and Yahoo !
Answers containing 10 categories of questions / answers .
Yelp and Amazon reviews involve sentiment analysis with ratings from 1 to 5 stars .
Two versions are derived from those datasets : one for predicting the number of stars , and the other involving the polarity of the reviews ( negative for 1 - 2 stars , positive for 4 - 5 stars ) .
Each text entry was split into sentences and tokenized using NLTK ( Bird et al. , 2009 ) .
Sequences longer than 1000 tokens were truncated to accommodate GPU memory limitations , only affecting a negligible portion of the texts .
See Figure 2 for We used 20 % of the training texts for validation .
The vocabulary was built using every word appearing in the training and validation sets .
The words embeddings were initialized using pre-trained word vectors from GloVe ( Pennington et al. , 2014 ) when available , or randomly initialized otherwise .
We experimented with two configurations for our proposed SANet .
The base model used N = 1 self-attention blocks , an embedding size of 100 and a hidden size of d = 128 .
The big model doubled these numbers , i.e .
N = 2 self-attention blocks , embedding size of 200 and hidden size d = 256 .
For each configuration , we also trained a baseline network without any attention mechanisms , replacing each self-attention layer with a feed forward layer .
Training was performed using SGD with a momentum of 0.9 , a learning rate of 0.01 and minibatches of size 128 .
For the embeddings , a learning rate of 0.001 was applied without momentum .
All learning rates were halved for the big model .
We trained for 40 epochs and selected the best epoch , based on validation accuracy .
Results and Discussion From a performance perspective , as shown in Table 1 , our model based entirely on attention is competitive while offering high level interpretability .
There is a notable exception with Yelp Review Polarity that will be discussed .
Our results also indicate that the increase in depth and representation size in the big model is beneficial , compared to the simpler base model .
Most noteworthy , we noticed considerably different behaviors of the attention mechanism depending on the type of task .
We offer an analysis below .
Topic Classification Tasks
On the topic classification task , the self-attention behavior can be described as looking for interactions between important concepts , without considering relative distance .
As such , it acts similarly to a bag-of - word approach , while highlighting key elements and their associations .
Thus , the attention matrix takes shape of active columns , one per concept .
One such matrix is depicted in Figure 3a , where the attention is focused on distanced pairs such as ( microsoft , class-action ) or ( settlement , billions ) to help SANet predict the Business category , while the baseline wrongfully predicts Sci / Tech .
We observed this column- based structure for attention matrix for every topic classification dataset , see Figure 4 multiple examples .
Although it adds interpretability to the model , our results seem to indicate that self-attention does not improve performances for topic classification , compared to the baseline .
Sentiment Analysis Tasks
For sentiment analysis tasks , self-attention improves accuracy for every dataset and model configurations that we tested .
For Yelp Review Polarity , although attention helps , the overall performances remain subpar .
Noticeably for the other datasets , SANet is able to extract subtle interactions between words , with a strong focus on neighboring relation .
Hence , the attention matrices are close to being band matrices , with interest concentrated on very small regions near the diagonal .
This is observable in Figure 5 where multiple examples from all sentiment analysis datasets are presented .
Concentration of the attention around the diagonal indicates that the useful features learned by the attention mechanism consist essentially of skip-bigrams with relatively small gaps .
Of note , Wang and Manning ( 2012 ) previously observed consistent gains when including word bigram features to extract sentiment .
Thus , our model corroborates this intuition about sentiment analysis while yielding interpretable insights on relevant word pairs across all possible skip-bigrams .
Figure 3 b is a typical example of such matrix with a band diagonal structure , for a 5 - star Yelp review .
A number of positive elements are highlighted by the self-attention mechanism such as i ) the initial strong sentiment with the interaction between this with love and ! ii ) the favorable comparison with even and better iii ) the enticing openness to experiences with try and something and iv ) the positive combination of two negative words with never and disappointed .
Positional encoding helps the self-attention mechanism when interpreting words repetitions , in order to extract sentiment gradation .
When repeating three times an adjective before the modified noun , attention on the adjective increases with their proximity to the noun : horrible horrible horrible service .
Punctuation repetitions exhibit a similar behavior , as in the sentence " love this place ! ! ! " , where the words love and all three exclamation points apply attention to this with varying intensities : love this place ! ! ! .
This particular behavior of the model reinforces our belief that it learns intricate knowledge for the task of sentiment analysis .
Entire attention heatmaps for complete sequences can be found in Figure 6 . Figure 5 : Randomly selected attention matrices for sentiment analysis task .
Each row corresponds to a different dataset in this order : Yelp Review Polarity , Yelp Review Full , Amazon Review Full and Amazon Review Polarity .
The diagonal band pattern of the matrices is clearly present in the attention mechanism for sentiment analysis except for the Yelp Review Polarity dataset .
Quantitative Analysis
We now present a quantitative analysis of the attention matrices to support the qualitative intuition stated previously .
Two metrics are used in order to assess the properties of the matrices ; the first one ( Gini coefficient ) quantifies the sparsity of the attention , whereas the second one ( diagonality ) focuses on the diagonal concentration .
These two properties are relevant for interpretability issues .
The results are presented in Table 2 .
The Gini coefficient which measures the inequality in the attention weights distribution is first computed .
For topic classification datasets , the mean of the Gini coefficient is 63.57 % , whereas , for sentiment analysis datasets , it raises at 87.15 % without considering Yelp Review Polarity .
Thus , for topic classification it reveals that every word interacts with multiple other words in the sequence .
On the other hand , for sentiment analysis , the attention is focused on a fewer number of word pairs .
The second metric will also point out that the sentiment analysis attention is sparse and specifically based on pair of words that are close in the sentence .
This structurally corresponds to an attention matrix concentrated near the diagonal and justifies the introduction of the following metric .
This new metric evaluates the resemblance with a band matrix by computing the proportion of attention weights which occur inside the band diagonal of a given bandwidth b , thus the band diagonal -ity or diagonality for short .
It expresses the interactions of every element with itself , and the b elements before and after in the sequence .
This metric of diagonality was computed for a bandwidth of b = 1 , 2 , . . . , 5 as presented in Table 2 . Results clearly reveal that sentiment analysis attention matrices are structurally close to being band matrices .
Notably , with a bandwidth of b = 3 for topic classification , 16.12 % of the weights occur inside the band diagonal , as for sentiment analysis without considering Yelp Review Polarity , 63.48 % is located inside the band diagonal .
In our opinion , the combination of these two metrics supports our qualitative observations of the attention matrices .
It strengthens the difference in attention behavior between the topic classification and sentiment analysis task .
Moreover , this quantitative analysis clearly exposes SANet inability to learn the appropriate attention behavior for sentiment analysis with Yelp Review Polarity .
Its failure to adequately exploit the self-attention mechanism coincide with its poor performance to extract sentiment .
Interestingly , Yelp Review Polarity examples are a subset of Yelp Review Full with merged classes , for which SANet performs well with the expected attention behavior .
The cause of this discrepancy with the Yelp datasets is unknown and left for future work as is some linguistic investigation of the impact of close interacting words in sentiment analysis .
Conclusion
In this paper , we introduced the Self-Attention Network ( SANet ) , an attention - based lengthagnostic model architecture for text classification .
Our experiments showed that self-attention is important for sentiment analysis .
Moreover , the improved interpretability of the model through attention visualization enabled us to discover considerably different behaviors of our attention mechanism between the topic classification and sentiment analysis tasks .
The interpretable perspective of this work gives insights on the importance of modeling interaction between neighboring words in order to accurately extract sentiment , as noted by ( Wang and Manning , 2012 ) for bigrams .
It highlights how interpretability can help us understand models behavior to guide future research .
In the future , we hope to apply our Self-Attention Network to other datasets such as bullying detection on social network data and tasks from various fields , such as genomic data in bioinformatics .
Finally , we wish to study the properties of the introduced global max pooling layer as a complementary tool for interpretability in a similar way that was done with CAM ( Oquab et al. , 2015 ) for global average pooling .
The outcome will be some attention on individual words that can take into account the context given by the self-attention mechanism .
This contrast with the approach of this paper which focuses on interaction between elements as pairs .
Thus we are allowed to expect that these two mechanisms will act in a complementary way to enrich interpretability .
Figure 2 : 2 Figure 2 : Visualization of sequences length distributions .
For each dataset , the total number of examples is presented on the right and task semantics are identified on the left : Topic Classification ( TC ) or Sentiment Analysis ( SA ) .
