title
ASTD : Arabic Sentiment Tweets Dataset
abstract
This paper introduces ASTD , an Arabic social sentiment analysis dataset gathered from Twitter .
It consists of about 10,000 tweets which are classified as objective , subjective positive , subjective negative , and subjective mixed .
We present the properties and the statistics of the dataset , and run experiments using standard partitioning of the dataset .
Our experiments provide benchmark results for 4 way sentiment classification on the dataset .
Introduction Arabic sentiment analysis work is gaining large attention nowadays .
This is mainly due to the need of a product that can utilize natural language processing technology to track and analyze the public mood through processing social data streams .
This calls for using standard social sentiment analysis datasets .
In this work we present ASTD ( Arabic Sentiment Tweets Dataset ) an Arabic social sentiment analysis dataset gathered from Twitter .
We discuss our method for gathering and annotating the dataset , and present its properties and statistics through the following tasks : ( 1 ) 4 way sentiment classification ( 2 ) Two stage class classification ; and ( 3 ) sentiment lexicon generation .
The contributions in this work can be summarized as : 1 . We present an Arabic social dataset of about 10 k tweets for subjectivity and sentiment analysis gathered from .
2 . We investigate the properties and the statistics of the dataset and provide standard splits for balanced and unbalanced settings of the dataset .
3 . We present a set of benchmark experiments to the dataset to establish a baseline for future comparisons .
4 . We make the dataset and the used experiments publicly available 1 .
Related Work
The detection of user sentiment in texts is a recent task in natural language processing .
This task is gaining a large attention nowadays due to the explosion in the number of social media platforms and the number of people using them .
Some Arabic sentiment datasets have been collected ( see Table 1 ) .
proposed the SAMAR system that perform subjectivity and sentiment analysis for Arabic social media where they used different multi-domain datasets collected from Wikipedia TalkPages , Twitter , and Arabic forums .
( Aly and Atiya , 2013 ) 3 Twitter Dataset
Dataset Collection
We have collected over 84,000 Arabic tweets .
We downloaded the tweets over two stages :
In the first stage we used SocialBakers 2 to determine the most active Egyptian Twitter accounts .
This gave us a list of 30 names .
We got the recent tweets of these accounts till November 2013 , and this amounted to about 36,000 .
In the second stage we crawled EgyptTrends 3 , a Twitter page for the top trending hash tags in Egypt .
We got about 2500 distinct hash tags which are used again to download the tweets .
We ended up obtaining about 48,000 tweets .
After filtering out the non-Arabic tweets , and performing some pre-processing steps to clean up unwanted content like HTML , we ended up with 54,716 Arabic tweets .
Dataset Annotation
We used Amazon Mechanical Turk ( AMT ) service to manually annotate the data set through an API called Boto 4 .
We used four tags : objective , subjective positive , subjective negative , and subjective mixed .
The tweets that are assigned the same rating from at least two raters were considered as conflict free and are accepted for further processing .
Other tweets that have conflict from all the three raters were ignored .
We were able to label around 10 k tweets .
Table 2 summarizes the statistics for the conflict free ratings tweets .
Dataset Properties
The dataset has 10,006 tweets .
Table 2 contains some statistics gathered from the dataset .
The histogram of the class categories is shown in Fig. 1 , where we notice the unbalance in the dataset , with much more objective tweets than positive , negative , or mixed .
Fig. 2 shows some examples from the data set , including positive , negative , mixed , and objective tweets .
Dataset Experiments
In this work , we performed a standard partitioning to the dataset then we used it for the sentiment polarity classification problem using a wide range of standard classifiers to perform 4 way sentiment classification .
Data Preparation
We partitioned the data into training , validation and test sets .
The validation set is used as a minitest for evaluating and comparing models for possible inclusion into the final model .
The ratio of the data among these three sets is 6:2:2 respectively .
Fig. 4 and Table 4 show the number of tweets for each class category in the training , test , and validation sets for both the balanced and unbalanced settings .
Fig. 3 also shows the number of n-gram counts for both the balanced and unbalanced settings .
4 Way Sentiment Classification
We explore using the dataset for the same set of experiments presented in ( Nabil et al. , 2014 ) by ap- plying a wide range of standard classifiers on the balanced and unbalanced settings of the dataset .
The experiment is applied on both the token counts and the Tf-Idf ( token frequency inverse document frequency ) of the n-grams .
Also we used the same accuracy measures for evaluating our results which are the weighted accuracy and the weighted F1 measure .
Table 5 shows the result for each classifier after training on both the training and the validation set and evaluating the result on the test set ( i.e. the train : test ratio is 8:2 ) .
Each cell has numbers that represent weighted accuracy / F1 measure where the evaluation is performed on the test set .
All the experiments were implemented in Python using Scikit Learn 5 .
Also the experiments were performed on a machine with Intel ?
Core ? i5-4440
From table 5 we can make the following observations : 1 . The 4 way sentiment classification task is more challenging than the 3 way sentiment classification task .
This is to be expected , since we are dealing with four classes in the former , as opposed to only three in the latter .
2 . The balanced set is more challenging than the unbalanced set for the classification task .
We believe that this because the the balanced set contains much fewer tweets compared to the unbalanced set .
Since having fewer training examples create data sparsity for many ngrams and may therefore leads to less reliable classification .
3 . SVM is the best classifier and this is consistent with previous results in ( Aly and Atiya , 2013 ) suggesting that the SVM is reliable choice .
Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper we presented ASTD an Arabic social sentiment analysis dataset gathered from twitter .
We presented our method of collecting and annotating the dataset .
We investigated the properties and the statistics of the dataset and performed two set of benchmark experiments : ( 1 ) 4 way sentiment classification ; ( 2 ) Two stage classification .
Also we constructed a seed sentiment lexicon from the dataset .
Our planned next steps include : 1 . Increase the size of the dataset .
2 . Discuss the issue of unbalanced dataset and text classification .
3 . Extend the generated method either automated or manually .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Tweets Histogram :
The number of tweets for each class category .
Notice the unbalance in the dataset , with much more objective tweets than positive , negative , or mixed .
