title
Fast Approach to Build an Automatic Sentiment Annotator for Legal Domain using Transfer Learning
abstract
This study proposes a novel way of identifying the sentiment of the phrases used in the legal domain .
The added complexity of the language used in law , and the inability of the existing systems to accurately predict the sentiments of words in law are the main motivations behind this study .
This is a transfer learning approach which can be used for other domain adaptation tasks as well .
The proposed methodology achieves an improvement of over 6 % compared to the source model 's accuracy in the legal domain .
Introduction
As described by Esuli and Sebastiani ( 2007 ) , sentiment analysis or sentiment classification is a recent methodology that aligns with information retrieval and computational linguistics which is focused on the opinion towards something which is represented by a certain text .
In many recent studies involving NLP in various domains , it is common to reuse the seminal RNTN ( Recursive Neural Tensor Network ) model ( Socher et al. , 2013 b ) trained on movie reviews for sentiment analysis .
However , the trained model has bias towards the movie review domain .
We propose a novel methodology to perform transfer learning on the RNTN model mentioned in Socher et al . ( 2013 b ) and build a target model .
Given that this is a transfer learning approach , the manually annotated data on movie reviews is used as the initial source model , rather than creating a new comparable manually annotated dataset for the legal domain .
In the proposed approach , the sentiment of a given phrase is classified into one of the two classes ; negative and non-negative .
This classification criterion is selected following the fact that the major use case aligns with classifying terms and entities supporting / referring to either plaintiff or defendant .
Therefore , the proposed methodology is focused on identifying the statements with negative sentiment as much as possible .
This kind of sentiment classification is vital to identify the stakeholder - bias in legal case statements .
Similarly , sentiment analysis in legal text can become useful in automating the identification of arguments , the supporting / opposing party for a given argument and counter arguments .
For the testing purposes , we created a manually annotated target domain test dataset such that the phrases belong to one of the two classes : negative or non-negative .
The target system shows a recall of 0.7014 for identifying phrases with negative sentiment in the legal domain .
Furthermore , the overall accuracy of the system is above 76 % in classifying sentiments for a given phrase correctly .
If this result is compared with the results of source RNTN model ( Socher et al. , 2013 b ) , it is a 6 % improvement in accuracy .
The approach proposed in this study can be tried on other domain adaptation tasks related to sentiment classification as well .
Background
The legal vocabulary have words of mixed origin such as English and Latin has been raised as a reason for the difficulty of creating computing applications for the legal domain ( Sugathadasa et al. , 2018 ) .
However , recently , there have been attempts to involve and build legal ontologies ( Jayawardana et al. , 2017 a , b, c ) .
Given the popularity of knowledge embedding , a number of studies have also attempted to embed legal jargon in vector spaces Nay , 2016 ) .
If we consider the research on sentiment analysis in legal domain , the study on Opinion Mining in legal blogs ( Conrad and Schilder , 2007 ) is closest implementation for this study that we have found .
But , the data set used for evaluation is based on movie reviews , customer reviews , and MPQA corpus ( Wiebe et al. , 2005 ) .
There have been numerous studies that were built upon SentiWordNet ( Esuli and Sebastiani , 2007 ; Baccianella et al. , 2010 ) which attempts to classify sentiments of phrases and sentences .
One such study by Ohana and Tierney ( 2009 ) proposes a methodology to perform opinion mining on movie reviews using support vector machine where some of the features were calculated using WordNet .
This achieves an accuracy of 69.35 % and claims that the inaccuracies in SentiWord - Net feature calculations are caused by the Senti-WordNet 's reliance on glosses .
Lu et al. ( 2012 ) evaluates the SentiWordNet for identifying opposing opinion networks in forum discussion .
The average SentiWordNet opinion score of words is considered to identify whether a user 's expressed comment for a given post has either for or against relationship .
The achieved accuracy using the SentiWordNet opinion score of words is 0.56 .
The method proposed by Socher et al . ( 2013 b ) provides an algorithm to identify the sentiment of a phrase or a sentence in a supervised manner using a deep learning model of the type Recursive Neural Tensor Network ( RNN ) .
It is claimed that this learning model has the capability to identify the sentiment considering the context of that word .
A dataset which consists of movie reviews where each sentence in the data set was broken into phrases and each phrase is annotated by human judges were created for this study .
The authors claim a testing accuracy of 80.7 % in phrase level for a test set drawn from the same dataset .
Further , the authors claim that the proposed model can be trained over any domain by following the provided methodology .
While , theoretically , it is possible , following this for legal domain in a practical implementation which covers a corpus which is both significant and sufficient is difficult .
This claim is substantiated by referring the dataset of the original research ( Socher et al. , 2013 b ) which utilized 215,154 manually annotated phrases ( from 11,855 sentences ) with over 5355 unique words .
In comparison to this , the legal corpus used in our study has a vocabulary exceeding 17000 words .
The difficulties are not mealy of scale given that the linguistic complexity of legal jargon exceeds that of the average text corpus ( Jayawardana et al. , 2017 b , c ; Sugathadasa et al. , , 2018 . Domain adaptation is a sub-category of Transfer Learning ( Raina et al. , 2007 ) .
There are several studies ( Raina et al. , 2007 ; Socher et al. , 2013a ) that claim the process of domain adaptation to be a suitable solution to perform transfer learning .
While the generic process of transfer learning is defined as the process of " learning model is trained using data from a certain domain and tested with respect to a different domain " ( Raina et al. , 2007 ) , the specific case of domain adaptation occurs when the task is similar in both source and target models .
Quattoni et al. ( 2008 ) is a study based on domain adaptation in Image Classification .
Methodology Given that the transfer learning process described in this study uses the Recursive Neural Tensor Network ( RNTN ) model proposed by Socher et al . ( 2013 b ) as the source model , we make numerous references to the aforementioned model throughout the paper .
Therefore , to avoid clutter , from this point onward the model proposed by Socher et al . ( 2013 b ) is referred as Socher Model in the remainder of this paper .
Selecting the Vocabulary Depending on the size of the corpus ( phrases extracted from legal text ) , availability of human annotators and the time , it is not feasible to analyze and modify the sentiment of every word in a corpus .
Therefore , it is required to select the vocabulary ( unique words in the corpus ) such that the end-model can correctly classify the sentiment of most of the phrases from the legal domain while not squandering human annotator time on words that occur rarely .
To this end , first , the stopwords ( Lo et al. , 2005 ) are removed from the text by utilizing the classical stop-word list known as the Van stop-list ( Van Rijsbergen , 1979 ) .
Next , the term frequencies for each word in the corpus is calculated and only the top 95 % words of it are added to the vocabulary .
Assigning Sentiments for the Selected Vocabulary
The selected vocabulary ( set of individual words ) is given to the sentiment annotator Socher Model as input .
From the model , sentiment is classified into one of the five classes as in table 3.2 .
This class scheme made sense for the movie re-views for which the Socher Model is trained and used for .
However , in the application of this study , the basic requirement of finding sentiment in court cases in the legal domain is to identify whether a given statement is against the plaintiff 's claim or not .
Therefore , we define two classes for sentiment : negative and non-negative .
Three human judges analyze the selected vocabulary and classify each unique word into the two classes depending on its sentiment separately and independently .
If at least two judges agree , the given word 's sentiment is assigned as the class those two judges agreed .
For the same word , the output from the sentiment annotator Socher Model belongs to one of the five classes mentioned in the preceding subsection .
In this approach , we map the output from Socher Model to the two classes we define in For a given word , if the two sentiment values assigned by the Socher Model and human judges do not agree with the above mapping , we define that the Socher Model 's output has deviated from its actual sentiment .
For example : Sentence : Sam is charged with a crime .
Socher Model 's output : positive Human judges ' annotation : negative
The word charged has several meanings depending on the context .
As the Socher Model was trained using movie reviews , the sentiment of the word charged is identified as positive .
Although the sentiment of the term crime is recognized as negative , the sentiment of the whole sentence is output as positive .
But in the legal domain , charged refers to a formal accusation .
Therefore , the sentiment for the above sentence should have been negative .
From the selected vocabulary , all the words with deviated sentiments are identified and listed separately for the further processing .
Brief description on the RNTN Model
In the preceding subsection , we came across a situation where the sentiment values from the Socher Model do not match the actual sentiment value because of the difference in domains .
And there are words like insufficient , which were not recognized by the model because those terms were not included in the training data-set .
One approach to solve this is to annotate the phrases extracted from legal case transcripts manually as the Socher Model suggests , which will require a considerable amount of human effort and time .
Instead of that , we can change the model such that the desired output can be obtained using the same trained Socher Model without explicitly training using phrases in the legal domain .
Hence , this method is called a transfer learning method .
In order to change the model , first , it is required to understand the internals of the Socher Model model .
When a phrase is provided as input , first it generates a binary tree corresponding to the input in which each leaf node represents a single word .
Each leaf node is represented as a vector with d-dimensions .
The parent nodes are also d-dimensional vectors which are computed in the bottom - up fashion according to some function g.
The function g is composed of a neural tensor layer .
Through the training process , the neural tensor layer and the word vectors are adjusted to support the relevant sentiment value .
The neural tensor layer corresponds to identify the sentiment according to the structure of words representing the phrase .
If we consider a phrase like not guilty , both individual word elements have negative sentiments .
But the composition of those words has the structure of negating a negative sentiment term or phrase .
Hence the phrase has a non-negative sentiment .
If the input was a phrase like very bad , the neural tensor layer has the ability to identify that the term very increases the negativity in the sentiment .
Adjusting Word Vector Values in RNTN Model
The requirement of the system is to identify the sentiment of a given phrase .
The proposed approach is not to modify the neural tensor layer completely .
We simply substitute the word vector values of individual words which are having deviated sentiments between Socher Model and human annotation ( See sections 3.2 ) .
The vectors for the words which were not in the vocabulary of the training set which was used to train the RNTN model should be instantiated .
The vectors of the words which are not deviated ( according to the definition provided in the preceding subsection 3.3 ) will remain the same .
As the words with deviated sentiments ( provided by the Socher Model ) in the vocabulary are already known , we initialize the vectors corresponding to the sentiment annotation for those words .
Since the model is not trained explicitly , the vector initialization is done by substituting the vectors of words in which sentiment is not deviated comparing the Socher Model output and its actual sentiment .
After the substitution is completed , we consider the part- of-speech tag .
For that purpose , the part- of-speech tagger mentioned in Toutanova et al . ( 2003 )
The number of words which have deviated sentiments is a considerably lower amount compared to the selected vocabulary .
The rest of the words ' vectors representing sentiments are not changed in the modification process .
The neural tensor layer also remains unchanged from the trained Socher Model using movie reviews ( Socher et al. , 2013 b ) .
When the vectors for words with deviated sentiments are initialized according to the part-ofspeech tag as shown in Table 2 , it is possible to make a fair assumption that when deciding the sentiment with the proposed implementation , it does not harm the structure corresponding to the linguistic features of English .
Consider the sentence " evidence is insufficient . " as an example .
The term " insufficient " is not in the vocabulary of the Socher Model due to the limited vocabulary in training data set .
Therefore , the Socher Model provides the sentiment of that word as neutral which indicates as a word with a deviated sentiment .
Following the Table 2 , the sentiment related vector is instantiated by substituting the vector of wrong as the part- of-speech tag of insufficient is JJ ( Santorini , 1990 ) .
Therefore the modified version of the RNTN model has the capability of identifying the sentiment of the above sentence as negative .
The figure 1 shows how the sentiment is induced through the newly instantiated word vector .
And there are scenarios where the term is in the vocabulary of the Socher Model but has a different sentiment compared to the legal domain .
Consider the sentence " Sam is charged with a crime " which was mentioned in section 3.2 , In section 3.2 , we have identified that the term charged denotes a different sentiment in legal domain compared to movie reviews .
The source RNTN model outputs a positive sentiment for that given sentence as the term charged is identified as having a positive sentiment according to movie reviews domain .
And that term is the cause for having such an output from the source model .
The figure 2 indicates how the change we introduced in the target model ( in section 3.2 ) induce the correct sentiment up to the root level of the phrase .
Therefore , the target model identifies the sentiment correctly for the given phrase .
To improve the recall in identifying phrases with negative sentiment , we have added another rule to the classification criteria .
The source RNTN model ( Socher Model ) provides the score for each of the five classes such that all those five scores sum up to 1 .
If the negative sentiment class has the highest score , the sentiment label of the phrase will be negative .
Otherwise , the phrase again can be classified as having a negative sentiment if the score for negative sentiment class is above 0.4 .
If those two conditions are not met , the phrase will be classified as having a non-negative sentiment .
Section 4 provides observations and results regarding the improved criteria .
Experiments and Results
The proposed approach in this paper is based on transfer learning .
Therefore , we needed to create a golden standard for identifying sentiments of phrases and sentences in the legal domain in order to evaluate the model .
The phrases and sentences for the test data set are randomly picked from legal case transcripts based on the United States Supreme Court .
During the selection process , we have selected an equal amount of phrases for both classes according to the Socher Model .
Each of these phrases and sentences is annotated by three human annotators .
Since the classification process is binary , we pick the sentiment class for each test subject based on the maximum number of votes .
In the end , we prepare the test data set containing nearly 1500 annotations to use in the evaluation process .
In the experiment , we compare the sentiment class picked by human judges and the modified RNTN model .
As the baseline model , we use the source RNTN model ( Socher Model ) to check the impact caused by the proposed transfer learning approach .
The acquired results from the baseline model is shown in Table 3 and results from the target model is shown in Table 4 . According to Table 3 and Table 4 , there is a 10 % improvement in identifying phrases with negative sentiment .
The reason is that there are a lot of unknown words which are in the legal domain but not in movie reviews corpus .
In addition , we have introduced new criteria based on a threshold for the score of negative class to improve the recall .
Due to that reason , the precision in identifying phrases with a negative sentiment is 0.8441 .
But if we compare with the precision of the baseline model ( Socher Model ) for negative sentiment class is 0.7962 which is a lower value .
Since the test dataset is not skewed a lot towards one class , it is fair to consider the accuracy of the system in predicting the sentiment for any given phrase .
The baseline model shows the accuracy of 70.17 % while the target model shows 76.80 % .
The im- provement in accuracy is above 6 % .
The observed results in Table 3 and Table 4 show that there is a 6 % improvement of the sentiment with respect to the baseline model .
There are a few reasons behind the results .
As we randomly selected phrases from the legal case transcripts corpus , only 45 % of the phrases actually contained the words where we had substituted the vector regarding sentiment .
Therefore , the output for 55 % of the phrases from the baseline model and the target model was the same .
If we compare the output provided by the baseline model and the target model , output of 9.5 % of the total phrases are different to each other .
Therefore the difference between the two models is based on that 9.5 % of the total phrases .
Conclusion
This study is focused on building an automatic sentiment annotator for legal texts based on the Recursive Neural Tensor Network ( RNTN ) model mentioned in Socher et al . ( 2013 b ) .
Furthermore , this study can be identified as a transfer learning approach as it is not required to prepare a training data set for the legal domain specifically .
Instead , this approach uses the same training data set stated in Socher et al . ( 2013 b ) .
This task can be recognized as a domain adaptation task .
The proposed approach could achieve a 70.14 % recall in identifying phrases with negative sentiments ( improvement is 10 % compared to the source model ) .
The accuracy of the target model is above 76 % which is a 6 % improvement over the source model .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Sentiment Prediction for a phrase with words not in source 's vocabulary but in target 's vocabulary
