title
ARB -SEN at SemEval - 2018 Task1 : A New Set of Features for Enhancing the Sentiment Intensity Prediction in Arabic Tweets
abstract
This article describes our proposed Arabic Sentiment Analysis system named ARB - SEN .
This system is designed for the International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation 2018 ( SemEval - 2018 ) , Task1 : Affect in Tweets .
ARB - SEN proposes two supervised models to estimate the sentiment intensity in Arabic tweets .
Both models use a set of features including sentiment lexicon , negation , word embedding and emotion symbols features .
Our system combines these features to assist the sentiment analysis task .
ARB - SEN system achieves a correlation score of 0.720 , ranking 6th among all participants in the valence intensity regression ( V-reg ) for the Arabic sub-task organized within the Se-mEval 2018 evaluation campaign .
Introduction and Related Work According to the Sentiment Analysis ( SA ) task is used to refer to the " task of automatically determining the valence or polarity of a piece of text , whether it is positive , negative , or neutral " .
Nowadays , social media platforms like Twitter , Facebook , LinkedIn , and Quora are widely used ( Lenze , 2017 ) .
For instance , Ranginwala and Towbin ( 2017 ) estimate that Twitter has 320 million active monthly users .
These social media platforms allow people to communicate not only the sentiment they are feeling ( positive or negative ) but also the intensity of this sentiment .
For example , from the tweet of your friend , you can estimate that : he is very happy ( most positive ) , slightly angry ( slightly negative ) , absolutely sad ( most negative ) or neutral .
Automatically determining the sentiment intensity is an important task in several application fields , such as public health , intelligence gathering , commerce and social welfare ( Mohammad and Bravo- Marquez , 2017 ) .
In the Semantic Evaluation ( SemEval ) , sentiment analysis in Twitter task has been proposed for the first time in SemEval - 2013 by ( Nakov et al. , 2013 ) . Since SemEval - 2013 , this task has become a principal task in SemEval : SemEval - 2014 ( Rosenthal et al. , 2014 ) , SemEval - 2015 ( Rosenthal et al. , 2015 ) , SemEval - 2016 , ( Nakov et al. , 2016 ) and SemEval - 2017 ( Rosenthal et al. , 2017 ) .
In the Arab world , Salem ( 2017 ) estimates that the number of monthly active Arabic users was 11.1 million in March 2017 , which makes Arabic an emergent language for sentiment analysis in Twitter ( Rosenthal et al. , 2017 ) .
Sentiment analysis task in Arabic is particularly a challenging research task ( Rosenthal et al. , 2017 ) due to its complex morphological and syntactic structure ( Habash , 2010 ) .
Many Arabic sentiment analysis tools and studies have been proposed in order to overcome this challenge .
For example in Arabic newswire , the most relevant works are : ( Abdul - Mageed et al. , 2011 ) , ( Elarnaoty et al. , 2012 ) .
In Arabic reviews we find ( Elhawary and Elfeky , 2010 ) , ( Elnagar , 2016 ) , ( Altowayan and Elnagar , 2017 ) .
In Arabic
Twitter many researches are focused on the sentiment analysis task such as ( Mourad and Darwish , 2013 ) , ( Abdul - Mageed et al. , 2014 ) , ( Refaee and Rieser , 2014 ) , , ( Salameh et al. , 2015 ) and ( Aldayel and Azmi , 2016 ) .
In this article we present our ARB - SEN system devoted to enhancing the detection of sentiment intensity in Arabic tweets .
ARB - SEN system proposes two methods to measure this valence .
Our best submitted method achieves a correlation of 0.720 , ranking 6th in the Arabic Detecting Sen-timent Intensity shared task ( Mohammad et al. , 2018a ) , SemEval -2018 .
System Description
The sentiment intensity detection in ARB - SEN system relies on a set of features .
In what follows we describe the considered features :
Sentiment Lexicon Features ( SLF )
We employed the following four sentiment lexicons to extract the SLF features :
Arabic Sentiment ( Valence ) Lexicons Created as part of SemEval - 2016 by , this Arabic sentiment lexicon is a list of 1,168 single words and 198 simple phrases and their associations with positive and negative sentiment .
The lexicon include both standard and dialectal Arabic terms .
Arabic Sentiment ( Valence ) Lexicons
This is a annotated Arabic sentiment lexicon that is created by .
These lexicons were created by measuring the extent to which the words in a tweets corpus co-occurred with a set of seed positive and seed negative terms .
This lexicon includes about 43 k entries ( 23 k positive and 20 k negative ) .
ArabSenti sentiment lexicon ArabSent is a manually annotated Arabic sentiment lexicon of 14 k words that was created and by Abdul - Mageed et al . ( 2011 ) .
Each word in Arab-Senti is associated with a positive / negative sentiment label .
Dialectal sentiment lexicon
This is a freely available Arabic sentiment lexicon with more than 480 dialectal Arabic words .
The lexicon is proposed by Refaee and Rieser ( 2014 ) and it is manually annotated by native Arabic speakers .
Using these sentiment lexicons , we extract for each tweet four features : 1 ) Sum Score
The sum of sentiment scores of all the words in the tweet .
2 ) Average Score
This feature computes the average of sentiment scores of all the words in the tweet .
3,4 ) Min and Max Score Represent the minimum and maximum sentiment score of words in the tweet .
For each of these features , if one word in the tweet does not exist in a sentiment lexicon , its corresponding sentiment score is not considered .
Negation Feature ( NF ) Negation refers to words that reverse the sentiment of the word / phrase coming after them .
For example : ( I 'm not happy ) , in this example the word ( happy ) has a positive sentiment , however , due to the negation word ( I 'm not ) the sentiment of expression becomes negative .
This feature is used by ENCU system ( Wang et al. , 2016 ) the best system in SemEval - 2016 ( Sentiment Intensity Task ) .
Wang et al. ( 2016 ) they showed that the sentiment of the phrase can be reversed by adding a negation .
Thus , for this binary feature , we have used a list of five main negation word in the Modern Standard Arabic ( MAS ) { , , , , } proposed by ( Abdulla et al. , 2013 ) .
If the tweet contains at least one negation , this feature is set to 1 , else 0 .
Word Embedding Feature ( WEF )
One of the main advantages of word embedding model is the fact that it allows for the retrieval of a list of words that are used in the same contexts with respect to a given word ( Mikolov et al. , 2013 ) .
In fact , we use the Arabic CBOW model ( Zahran et al. , 2015 ) to construct a list of 5 - closet words for each word in the tweet as described in ( Nagoudi et al. , 2017 ) .
Then , we extract for each tweet the same features described in the section 2.1 , with the difference that we compute the sentiment score for each word based on their 5 - closet in word embedding :
1 ) Sum ScoreThe sum of the average sentiment scores of all the 5 - closet words in tweet .
2 ) Average Score
This feature computes the average of sentiment scores of the 5 - closet words in the tweet .
3,4 ) Min and Max Score Represent the minimum and maximum average sentiment score of the 5 - closet words in tweet .
To compute these features , we have used the same sentiment lexicons presented in the section 2.1 .
Emoticons and Emojis Features ( EEF )
The emoticons and emojis are already used in the sentiment analysis task in twitter ( Read , 2005 ) and ( Wolny , 2016 ) .
Therefore , we have used the Emoticons and Emojis as an indicator to predict the sentiment intensity of the tweet .
We have used 3 set of emoticon and emoji positive , negative and neutral .
Table 2 shows a sample of the positive , negative and neutral of emoticons and emojis .
Positive
Models Construction
The previously described features are fed into two different regression classifiers : Linear Regression ( LR ) and Support Vector Regression ( SVR ) .
We have used the python- based machine learning scikit-learn library 1 to trained these classifiers on the training and development data set of SemEval 2018 ( Mohammad et al. , 2018 b ) , along with the previously discussed features to predict the sentiment intensity score for each tweet .
Figure 1 illustrates an overview of the ARB - SEN system .
3 Experiments And Results
Training Data
The organisers of SemEval 2018 provided a training and development data set , which contained 933 and 139 Arabic tweets respectively .
Thus , the trial and development are used as training data for our supervised models .
Data Pre-processing
In order normalize tweets , many pre-processing techniques have been proposed in the literature , such as : ( Agarwal et al. , 2011 ) , ( Ahmed et al. , 1 http://scikit-learn.org 2013 ) , and ( Rosenthal et al. , 2014 ) .
Therefore , we normalize our tweets using the following preprocessing steps :
1 . Removing @user names , RTs , and URLs ; 2 . Removing diacritics and non-alphanumeric characters ;
3 . Tokenizing the # hashtags of each tweet by breaking them into words , e.g : # very nice day becomes very , nice and day ; 4 . Normalizing the exchangeable Arabic letters as described in ( Darwish et al. , 2012 ) , e.g : normalizing to and replacing final followed by with .
Tests and Results
To evaluate the performance of our system , our two supervised models were assessed based on their accuracy on the 731 tweets in the Arabic Sentiment Intensity Evaluation Set 2 .
In addition , we studied the impact of sentiment lexicon , negation , word embedding and emotion symbols features on the prediction efficiency .
We calculate the Pearson correlation between our assigned Sentiment Intensity scores and the gold labels .
The results are presented in Table 2 .
These results demonstrate that SVR classifier with all features succeed in predict the sentiment intensity in Arabic tweets with a Pearson correlation score of 0.720 .
However , the LR classifier with all features achieves a correlation score of 0.617 .
Thus , we can easily observe that SVR classifier with all features outperforms the LR classi -
Conclusion and Future Work
In this article , we have presented two supervised models to predicate the sentiment intensity in Arabic tweets .
Both classifiers are trained along with a set of Arabic tweets characterised by a set of features including : sentiment lexicon , negation , word embedding and emotion symbols features .
The performance of our proposed system was confirmed through the Pearson correlation between our assigned sentiment scores and the golden labels .
As future work , we are going to extend our features by using an Arabic Combined - Sentiment Word Embedding model .
We would also like to further investigate the Arabic sentiment analysis task with more recent classifiers , namely Neural Deep learning .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Architecture of the ARB - SEN system .
