title
Sentiment Translation through Lexicon Induction
abstract
The translation of sentiment information is a task from which sentiment analysis systems can benefit .
We present a novel , graph - based approach using Sim-Rank , a well - established vertex similarity algorithm to transfer sentiment information between a source language and a target language graph .
We evaluate this method in comparison with SO - PMI .
Introduction Sentiment analysis is an important topic in computational linguistics that is of theoretical interest but also implies many real-world applications .
Usually , two aspects are of importance in sentiment analysis .
The first is the detection of subjectivity , i.e. whether a text or an expression is meant to express sentiment at all ; the second is the determination of sentiment orientation , i.e. what sentiment is to be expressed in a structure that is considered subjective .
Work on sentiment analysis most often covers resources or analysis methods in a single language , usually English .
However , the transfer of sentiment analysis between languages can be advantageous by making use of resources for a source language to improve the analysis of the target language .
This paper presents an approach to the transfer of sentiment information between languages .
It is built around an algorithm that has been successfully applied for the acquisition of bilingual lexicons .
One of the main benefits of the method is its ability of handling sparse data well .
Our experiments are carried out using English as a source language and German as a target language .
Related Work
The translation of sentiment information has been the topic of multiple publications .
Mihalcea et al. ( 2007 ) propose two methods for translating sentiment lexicons .
The first method simply uses bilingual dictionaries to translate an English sentiment lexicon .
A sentence - based classifier built with this list achieved high precision but low recall on a small Romanian test set .
The second method is based on parallel corpora .
The source language in the corpus is annotated with sentiment information , and the information is then projected to the target language .
Problems arise due to mistranslations , e.g. , because irony is not recognized .
Banea et al. ( 2008 ) use machine translation for multilingual sentiment analysis .
Given a corpus annotated with sentiment information in one language , machine translation is used to produce an annotated corpus in the target language , by preserving the annotations .
The original annotations can be produced either manually or automatically .
Wan ( 2009 ) constructs a multilingual classifier using co-training .
In co-training , one classifier produces additional training data for a second classifier .
In this case , an English classifier assists in training a Chinese classifier .
The induction of a sentiment lexicon is the subject of early work by ( Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown , 1997 ) .
They construct graphs from coordination data from large corpora based on the intuition that adjectives with the same sentiment orientation are likely to be coordinated .
For example , fresh and delicious is more likely than rotten and delicious .
They then apply a graph clustering algorithm to find groups of adjectives with the same orientation .
Finally , they assign the same label to all adjectives that belong to the same cluster .
The authors note that some words cannot be assigned a unique label since their sentiment depends on con-text .
Turney ( 2002 ) suggests a corpus-based extraction method based on his pointwise mutual information ( PMI ) synonymy measure
He assumes that the sentiment orientation of a phrase can be determined by comparing its pointwise mutual information with a positive ( excellent ) and a negative phrase ( poor ) .
An introduction to SO - PMI is given in Section 5.1
Bilingual Lexicon Induction Typical approaches to the induction of bilingual lexicons involve gathering new information from a small set of known identities between the languages which is called a seed lexicon and incorporating intralingual sources of information ( e.g. cooccurrence counts ) .
Two examples of such methods are a graph - based approach by and a vector-space based approach by Rapp ( 1999 ) .
In this paper , we will employ the graph- based method .
SimRank was first introduced by Jeh and Widom ( 2002 ) .
It is an iterative algorithm that measures the similarity between all vertices in a graph .
In SimRank , two nodes are similar if their neighbors are similar .
This defines a recursive process that ends when the two nodes compared are identical .
As proposed by , we will apply it to a graph G in which vertices represent words and edges represent relations between words .
SimRank will then yield similarity values between vertices that indicate the degree of relatedness between them with regard to the property encoded through the edges .
For two nodes i and j in G , similarity according to SimRank is defined as sim ( i , j ) = c | N ( i ) | |N ( j ) k?N ( i ) , l?N ( j ) sim (k , l ) , where N ( x ) is the neighborhood of x and c is a weight factor that determines the influence of neighbors that are farther away .
The initial condition for the recursion is sim ( i , i ) = 1 . further propose the application of the SimRank algorithm for the calculation of similarities between a source graph S and a target graph T .
Initially , some relations between the two graphs need to be known .
When operating on word graphs , these can be taken from a bilingual lexicon .
This provides us with a framework for the induction of a bilingual lexicon which can be constructed based on the obtained similarity values between the vertices of the two graphs .
One problem of SimRank observed in experiments by Laws et al . ( 2010 ) was that while words with high similarity were semantically related , they often were not exact translations of each other but instead often fell into the categories of hyponymy , hypernomy , holonymy , or meronymy .
However , this makes the similarity values applicable for the translation of sentiment since it is a property that does not depend on exact synonymy .
Sentiment Transfer
Although unsupervised methods for the design of sentiment analysis systems exist , any approach can benefit from using resources that have been established in other languages .
The main problem that we aim to deal with in this paper is the transfer of such information between languages .
The SimRank lexicon induction method is suitable for this purpose since it can produce useful similarity values even with a small seed lexicon .
First , we build a graph for each language .
The vertices of these graphs will represent adjectives while the edges are coordination relations between these adjectives .
An example for such a graph is given in Figure 1 .
The use of coordination information has been shown to be beneficial for example in early work by Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown ( 1997 ) .
Seed links between those graphs will be taken from a universal dictionary .
Figure 2 shows an example graph .
Here , intralingual coordination relations are represented as black lines , seed relations as solid grey lines , and relations that are induced through SimRank as dashed grey lines .
After computing similarities in this graph , we need to obtain sentiment values .
We will define the sentiment score ( sent ) as sent ( n t ) = ns ?S sim norm ( n s , n t ) sent ( n s ) , where n t is a node in the target graph T , and S the source graph .
This way , the sentiment score of each node is an average over all nodes in S weighted by their normalized similarity , sim norm .
We define the normalized similarity as sim norm ( n s , n t ) = sim ( n s , n t ) ns ?S sim ( n s , n t ) .
Normalization guarantees that all sentiment scores lie within a specified range .
Scores are not a direct indicator for orientation since the similarities still include a lot of noise .
Therefore , we interpret the scores by assigning each word to a category by finding score thresholds between the categories .
Experiments
Baseline Method ( SO - PMI )
We will compare our method to the wellestablished SO - PMI algorithm by Turney ( 2002 ) to show an improvement over an unsupervised method .
The algorithm works with cooccurrence counts on large corpora .
To determine the semantic orientation of a word w , the hits near positive ( P words ) and negative ( N words ) seed words is used .
The SO - PMI equation is given as SO - PMI ( word ) = log 2 pword ?
P words hits ( word NEAR pword ) nword ?
N words hits ( word NEAR nword ) ? nword ?
N words hits ( nword ) pword ?
P words hits ( pword )
Data Acquisition
We used the English and German Wikipedia branches as our corpora .
We extracted coordinations from the corpus using a simple CQP pattern search ( Christ et al. , 1999 ) .
For our experiments , we looked only at coordinations with and .
For the English corpus , we used the pattern German pairs .
We used the dict.cc dictionary 1 as a seed dictionary .
It contained a total of 30,551 adjectives .
After building a graph out of this data as described in Section 4 , we apply the SimRank algorithm using 7 iterations .
Data for the SO - PMI method had to be collected from queries to search engines since the information available in the Wikipedia corpus was too sparse .
Since Google does not provide a stable NEAR operator , we used coordinations instead .
For each of the test words w and the SO - PMI seed words s we made two queries + " w und s " and + " s und w " to Google .
The quotes and + were added to ensure that no spelling correction or synonym replacements took place .
Since the original experiments were designed for an English corpus , a set of German seed words had to be constructed .
We chose gut , nett , richtig , sch ?n , ordentlich , angenehm , aufrichtig , gewissenhaft , and hervorragend as positive seeds , and schlecht , teuer , falsch , b?se , feindlich , verhasst , widerlich , fehlerhaft , and word value strongpos 1.0 weakpos 0.5 neutral 0.0 weakneg ?0.5 strongneg ?1.0 Table 1 : Assigned values for positivity labels mangelhaft as negative seeds .
We constructed a test set by randomly selecting 200 German adjectives that occurred in a coordination in Wikipedia .
We then eliminated adjectives that we deemed uncommon or too difficult to understand or that were mislabeled as adjectives .
This resulted in a 150 word test set .
To determine the sentiment of these adjectives , we asked 9 human judges , all native German speakers , to annotate them given the classes neutral , slightly negative , very negative , slightly positive , and very positive , reflecting the categories from the training data .
In the annotation process , another 7 adjectives had to be discarded because one or more annotators marked them as unknown .
Since human judges tend to interpret scales differently , we examine their agreement using Kendall 's coefficient of concordance ( W ) including correction for ties ( Legendre , 2005 ) which takes ranks into account .
The agreement was calculated as W = 0.674 with a significant confidence ( p < .001 ) , which is usually interpreted as substantial agreement .
Manual examination of the data showed that most disagreement between the annotators occurred with adjectives that are tied to political implications , for example nuklear ( nuclear ) .
Sentiment Lexicon Induction
For our experiments , we used the polarity lexicon of Wilson et al . ( 2005 ) .
It includes annotations of positivity in the form of the categories neutral , weakly positive ( weakpos ) , strongly positive ( strongpos ) , weakly negative ( weakneg ) , and strongly positive ( strongneg ) .
In order to conduct arithmetic operations on these annotations , mapped them to values from the interval [ ? 1 , 1 ] by using the assignments given in Table 1 .
Results
To compare the two methods to the human raters , we first reproduce the evaluation by Turney ( 2002 ) and examine the correlation coefficients .
Both methods will be compared to an average over the human rater values .
These values are calculated on values asserted based on Table 1 .
The correlation coefficients between the automatic systems and the human ratings , SO - PMI yields r = 0.551 , and SimRank yields r = 0.587 which are not significantly different .
This shows that SO and SR have about the same performance on this broad measure .
Since many adjectives do not express sentiment at all , the correct categorization of neutral adjectives is as important as the scalar rating .
Thus , we divide the adjectives into three categoriespositive , neutral , and negative .
Due to disagreements between the human judges there exists no clear threshold between these categories .
In order to try different thresholds , we assume that sentiment is symmetrically distributed with mean 0 on the human scores .
For x ? { i 20 |0 ? i ? 19 } , we then assign word w with human rating score ( w ) to negative if score ( w ) ? ?x , to neutral if ?x < score ( w ) < x and to positive otherwise .
This gives us a three - category gold standard for each x that is then the basis for computing evaluation measures .
Each category contains a certain percentile of the list of adjectives .
By mapping these percentiles to the rank-ordered scores for SO - PMI and SimRank , we can create three - category partitions for them .
For example if for x = 0.35 21 % of the adjectives are negative , then the 21 % of adjectives with the lowest SO - PMI scores are deemed to have been rated negative by SO - PMI .
First , we will look at the macro- and microaveraged accuracies for both methods ( cf. Figure 3 ) .
Overall , SimRank performs better for x between 0.05 and 0.4 which is a plausible interval for the neutral threshold on the human ratings .
The results diverge for very low and high values of x , however these values can be considered unrealistic since they implicate neutral areas that are too small or too large .
When comparing the accuracies for each of the classes ( cf. Figure 4 ) , we observe that in the aforementioned interval , Sim-Rank has higher accuracy values than SO - PMI for all of them .
Ausdrucksvoll receives a positive score from SO - PMI which matches the human rating , however not from SimRank , which assigns a score close to 0 and would likely be considered neutral .
This error can be explained by examining the similarity distribution for ausdrucksvoll which reveals that there are no nodes that are similar to this node , which was most likely caused by its low degree .
Auferstanden ( resurrected ) is perceived as a positive adjective by the human judges , however it is misclassified by SimRank as negative due to its occurrence with words like gestorben ( deceased ) and gekreuzigt ( crucified ) which have negative as -
Conclusion and Outlook
We presented a novel approach to the translation of sentiment information that outperforms SO - PMI , an established method .
In particular , we could show that SimRank outperforms SO - PMI for values of the threshold x in an interval that most likely leads to the correct separation of positive , neutral , and negative adjectives .
We intend to compare our system to other available work in the future .
In addition to our findings , we created an initial gold standard set of sentiment - annotated German adjectives that will be publicly available .
The two methods are very different in nature ; while SO - PMI is suitable for languages in which very large corpora exist , this might not be the case for knowledge -sparse languages .
For some German words ( e.g. schwerstkrank ( seriously ill ) ) , SO - PMI lacked sufficient results on the web whereas SimRank correctly assigned negative sentiment .
SimRank can leverage knowledge from neighbor words to circumvent this problem .
In turn , this information can turn out to be misleading ( cf. auferstanden ) .
An advantage of our method is that it uses existing resources from another language and can thus be applied without much knowledge about the target language .
Our future work will include a further examination of the merits of its application for knowledge -sparse languages .
The underlying graph structure provides a foundation for many conceivable extensions .
In this paper , we presented a fairly simple experiment restricted to adjectives only .
However , the method is suitable to include arbitrary parts of speech as well as phrases , as used by Turney ( 2002 ) .
Another conceivable application would be the direct combination of the SimRank - based model with a statistical model .
Currently , our input sentiment list exists only of prior sentiment values , however work by Wilson et al . ( 2009 ) has advanced the notion of contextual polarity lists .
The automatic translation of this information could be beneficial for sentiment analysis in other languages .
Another important problem in sentiment analysis is the treatment of ambiguity .
The sentiment expressed by a word or phrase is contextdependent and is for example related to word sense ( Akkaya et al. , 2009 ) .
Based on regularities in graph structure and similarity , ambiguity resolution might become possible .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Sample graph showing English coordination relations .
