title
SentiRec : Sentiment Diversity - aware Neural News Recommendation
abstract
Personalized news recommendation is important for online news services .
Many news recommendation methods recommend news based on their relevance to users ' historical browsed news , and the recommended news usually have similar sentiment with browsed news .
However , if browsed news is dominated by certain kinds of sentiment , the model may intensively recommend news with the same sentiment orientation , making it difficult for users to receive diverse opinions and news events .
In this paper , we propose a sentiment diversity - aware neural news recommendation approach , which can recommend news with more diverse sentiment .
In our approach , we propose a sentiment - aware news encoder , which is jointly trained with an auxiliary sentiment prediction task , to learn sentiment - aware news representations .
We learn user representations from browsed news representations , and compute click scores based on user and candidate news representations .
In addition , we propose a sentiment diversity regularization method to penalize the model by combining the overall sentiment orientation of browsed news as well as the click and sentiment scores of candidate news .
Extensive experiments on real-world dataset show that our approach can effectively improve the sentiment diversity in news recommendation without performance sacrifice .
Introduction
Online news websites such as Google news 1 have gained huge popularity for consuming digital news ( Das et al. , 2007 ) .
However , it is difficult for users to find their interested news information due to the huge volume of news emerging every day ( Okura et al. , 2017 ) .
Thus , personalized news recommendation is important for news websites to target user interest and alleviate information overload ( Wu et al. , 2019a ) .
Many existing news recommendation methods rank candidate news based on their relevance to the interests of users inferred from their historical browsed news ( Okura et al. , 2017 ; Wu et al. , 2019 c ) .
For example , Okura et al. ( 2017 ) proposed to learn news representations from news texts via autoencoders , and learn user representations from browsed news using a gated recurrent unit ( GRU ) network .
They ranked candidate news based on the inner product of the user representation and candidate news representation .
Wu et al . ( 2019 c ) proposed to learn news and user representations using multi-head self-attention networks .
They ranked news based on the click scores computed by the dot product between news and user representations .
The news articles recommended by these methods are usually similar to those previously browsed by a user in many aspects , such as content and sentiment .
For example , in Fig.
1 the two candidate news articles are recommended to both users .
The first user browses a news about the highway in San Francisco and a news about a person helping the homeless , which has inherent relatedness with the content of the candidate news .
The second user browses several news about deadly accidents and crime , which has the same sentiment orientation as the candidate news .
However , like the recommendations for the second user in Fig. 1 , if a user mainly browses news articles that have a certain kind of sentiment ( e.g. , negative sentiment ) , many existing methods may intensively recommend news with the same sentiment orientation , which is not beneficial for this user to receive diverse opinions and news events that convey other sentiments .
In this paper , we propose a sentiment diversityaware news recommendation approach named Sen-tiRec , which can improve the sentiment diversity of news recommendation by considering the sentiment orientation of candidate and browsed news .
In our approach , we propose a sentiment - aware news encoder , which is jointly trained with an auxiliary news sentiment prediction task , to incorporate sentiment information into news modeling and generate sentiment - aware news representations .
We learn user representations from the representations of browsed news , and compute the click scores of candidate news based on their relevance to the user representations .
In addition , to enhance the sentiment diversity of news recommendation , we propose a sentiment diversity regularization method to penalize our model during model training , which is based on the overall sentiment orientation of browsed news as well as the sentiment scores and click scores of candidate news .
We conduct extensive experiments on a real-world benchmark dataset , and the results show that our approach can achieve better sentiment diversity and recommendation accuracy than many baseline methods .
The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows : ?
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first work that explores to improve the sentiment diversity of news recommendation .
?
We propose a sentiment - aware news encoder that incorporates an auxiliary news sentiment prediction task to encode sentiment - aware news representations . ?
We propose a sentiment diversity regularization method to encourage the model to recommend news with diverse sentiment from the browsed news .
?
Extensive experiments on real-world benchmark dataset verify that our approach can recommend news with diverse sentiment without performance loss .
Related Work News recommendation is an important technique for online news websites to provide personalized news reading services ( Zheng et al. , 2018 ) .
A core problem in news recommendation is building accurate representations of news and users and further ranking candidate news according to news and user representations ( Okura et al. , 2017 ) .
In many news recommendation methods , news ranking is based on the representations of news and users built by manual feature engineering ( Liu et al. , 2010 ; Capelle et al. , 2012 ; Son et al. , 2013 ; Karkali et al. , 2013 ; Garcin et al. , 2013 ; Bansal et al. , 2015 ; Ren et al. , 2015 ; Chen et al. , 2017 ; Zihayat et al. , 2019 ) .
For example , Liu et al . ( 2010 )
However , these methods rely on manual feature engineering to build news and user representations , which usually necessitate massive expertise .
In addition , handcrafted features may not be optimal in representing news content and user interest .
In recent years , several news recommendation methods based on deep learning techniques are proposed ( Okura et al. , 2017 ; Khattar et al. , 2018 ; Wang et al. , 2018 ; Wu et al. , 2019a ; Wu et al. , 2019 b , c ; Ge et al. , 2020 ) .
For example , Okura et al. ( 2017 ) proposed to learn first news representations from news bodies using autoencoders , and then learn representations of users from their clicked news with a GRU network .
Candidate news are ranked based on the click scores computed by the dot products between news and user representations .
Wang et al. ( 2018 ) proposed to learn news representations from news titles and their entities via a knowledge - aware CNN network , and learn user representations from clicked news with a candidate - aware attention network .
They ranked candidate news based on the click scores computed from the concatenation of news and user representations via a feed-forward neural network .
Wu et al . ( 2019 c ) proposed to learn news and user representations with a combination of multi-head self-attention and additive attention networks .
They also used dot product to compute click scores for news ranking .
These methods tend to recommend news articles which are similar with the news users previously browsed ( Lin et al. , 2014 ) .
Thus , these methods may recommend news with similar sentiment orientation with those previously browsed by users , which is not beneficial for users to receive diverse news information .
Different from these methods , our approach can effectively recommend news with diverse sentiment to users by incorporating sentiment information into news modeling via a sentiment - aware news encoder and regularizing the model based on the sentiment orientation of browsed and candidate news .
Our Approach
In this section , we first present the formal definitions of the problem explored in this paper , then introduce the details of our sentiment diversity - aware news recommendation ( SentiRec ) approach .
Problem Definition
The problem studied in this paper is defined as follows .
Given a user u with her news browsing history H = [ D 1 , D 2 , ... , D N ] and a set of candidate news 2 C = [ D c 1 , D c 2 , ... , D c P ] ( N and P respectively denote the number of browsed news and candidate news ) , the goal of the news recommendation model is to predict the personalized click scores [ ?
1 , ?2 , ... , ?P ] of these candidate news , which are further used for ranking and display .
We denote the sentiment labels of the browsed news and candidate news as [ s 1 , s 2 , ... , s N ] and [ s c 1 , s c 2 , ... , s c P ] , respectively .
In this paper we assume the sentiment labels are real values from - 1 to 1 , which indicate the sentiment polarity of news articles .
We denote the overall sentiment orientation of browsed news as s .
The sentiment diversity is defined as the differences between the sentiment orientation of recommended news and the overall sentiment of browsed news .
3
The sentiment diversity of the news ranking results C for the user u is measured by a function d = f ( C , s ) .
The recommendation diversity is better if more top ranked news in C have the different sentiment orientation with s .
News Recommendation Framework
In this section , we introduce the general news recommendation framework of our SentiRec approach , as shown in Fig.
2 .
There are three core components in this framework for news recommendation , i.e. , sentiment - aware ( SA ) news encoder , user encoder , and click predictor .
The sentimentaware news encoder aims to learn representations of news articles from their texts , where their sentiments are taken into consideration .
We apply the sentiment - aware news encoder to the browsed news [ D 1 , D 2 , ... , D N ] and the candidate news D c to encode their sentiment - aware representations , which are respectively denoted as [ r 1 , r 2 , ... , r N ] and r c .
The user encoder aims to learn representations of users from the sentiment - aware representations of their browsed news .
Motivated by ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) , we use Transformer to capture the relatedness between browsed news and learn a unified representation u for each user .
The click predictor aims to compute the personalized click scores of candidate news by measuring the relevance between user and candidate news representations .
Following many previous works ( Okura et al. , 2017 ; Wu et al. , 2019 b ) , we use dot product to implement the click predictor , and the click score ? is predicted by ?
= u r c .
Sentiment - Aware News Encoder
In this section , we introduce the details of the sentiment - aware news encoders in our SentiRec approach .
Its architecture is shown in Fig. 3 . Motivated by the news encoder in ( Wu et al. , 2019 c ) , we first use a word embedding layer to convert the sequence of words in a news title into a sequence of semantic vectors , and then use a Transformer ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) to capture the contexts of words and build a unified r representation of news texts .
However , the news representations directly learned by the Transformer are usually not sentiment - bearing .
In fact , the sentiment information of news is very important for understanding the content of news .
For example , in Fig. 1 , although the news " Early morning ... " and " Snack Man ... " are both related to the homeless , they have opposite sentiment polarity , and modeling the sentiment of them can help understand their content better .
In addition , the sentiment of news can also provide useful clues for user modeling and news ranking .
For example , if a user frequently clicks negative news as the second user in Fig. 1 , it may be more appropriate to recommend several positive news to this user rather than continuously recommending similar negative news .
Thus , modeling news sentiment has the potential to enhance news recommendation .
However , since the sentiment scores of news are numerical variables , simply re-garding them as model input may be not optimal .
Thus , we propose an auxiliary sentiment prediction task , and we jointly train the news encoder with this task to encourage it to learn sentiment - aware news representations .
The real- valued sentiment score ? is predicted as follows : ? = V s ? r + v s , ( 1 ) where V s and v s are parameters .
The loss function of sentiment prediction we use is the mean absolute error ( MAE ) , which is formulated as follows : L senti = 1 S S i=1 |?
i ? s i | , ( 2 ) where ?i and s i respectively stand for the predicted sentiment score and sentiment label of the i-th news , and S denotes the number of news .
The sentiment labels are obtained by the sentiment analyzer modules in Fig. 2 , which can be implemented by many sentiment analysis methods .
Sentiment Diversity Regularization
To further improve the sentiment diversity of news recommendation , we propose a sentiment diversity regularization method to penalize the recommendation model according to the overall sentiment score of browsed news , the sentiment score of candidate news , and its predicted click score .
As shown in Fig. 2 , we first use the sentiment analyzer to obtain the sentiment scores of the candidate news ( denoted as s c ) and browsed news ( denoted as [ s 1 , s 2 , ... , s N ] ) .
We then compute an overall sentiment score 4 of browsed news to indicate the historical sentiment preference of a user as follows : s = 1 N N i=1 s i . ( 3 ) A positive s indicates that the user has read news with more positive sentiment and a negative s indicates the negative sentiment is dominant in the browsed news .
If the news recommender intensively recommends news with the same sentiment polarity with the overall sentiment s of a user 's browsed news , it is difficult for this user to receive diverse news information .
Thus , it is important to recommend news with diverse sentiment to users .
To solve this problem , we propose a sentiment diversity regularization method .
We first propose to compute a sentiment diversity score p with a sentiment monitor , which is formulated as follows : p = max ( 0 , ss c ? ) , ( 4 ) where a larger score of p indicates less sentiment diversity .
In this formula , for a candidate news that shares the same sentiment polarity with s , the score p is larger if the model assigns it a higher click score or its sentiment and the overall browsed news sentiment are more intense , which indicate that the recommendation is less diverse in sentiment .
Then , we propose a sentiment diversity loss function to regularize our model as follows : L div = 1 | S | i?S p i , ( 5 ) where S is the data set for model training , and p i denotes the sentiment diversity score of the i-th sample in S .
Model Training
In this section , we introduce how to train the models in our SentiRec approach .
Following ( Huang et al. , 2013 ; Wu et al. , 2019 c ) , we use negative sampling techniques to construct labeled data for the news recommendation task from the user impression logs .
More specifically , for each news clicked by a user , we randomly sample K news displayed in the same impression which are not clicked by this user .
We denote the click scores of the i-th clicked news as ?+ i and the associated K non-click news as [ ?
? i,1 , ? i,2 , ... , ? i , K ] . we use the click predictor to jointly predict these scores , and normalize these scores via the softmax function to compute the click probability scores .
The news recommendation loss we used is the negative log-likelihood of the clicked news samples , which is computed as : Lrec = i?S log ( exp ( ? + i ) exp (? + i ) + K j=1 exp ( ? ? i , j ) ) , ( 6 ) where S is the data set for model training .
We jointly train the news recommendation model with the auxiliary sentiment prediction task and meanwhile regularize it using the sentiment diversity loss .
The final unified loss function of our approach is a weighted summation of the three loss functions , which is formulated as follows : L = L rec + ?L senti + ?L div , ( 7 ) where ? and ? are coefficients to control the relative importance of the sentiment prediction loss and sentiment diversity regularization loss .
Experiments
Datasets and Experimental Settings
Our experiments were conducted on a real-world news recommendation dataset provided by ( Wu et al. , 2019 b ) in Figs. 4 ( a ) and 4 ( b ) , respectively .
We find that although positive and negative news are almost balanced , the overall sentiment orientation of users ' browsed news is negative .
In addition , we show the average click - through rate ( CTR ) of news with different ranges of sentiment scores in Fig.
5 .
As the saying goes , " evil news rides fast , while good news baits later " .
We find it is interesting that more negative news have higher CTRs , which indicates that negative news has stronger ability in attracting news clicks .
Thus , it is important to recommend news with diverse sentiment to avoid overwhelming users with too much negative news information .
Following Wu et al. ( 2019 b ) , in our experiments the word embeddings were initialized by the 300 dimensional Glove embeddings ( Pennington et al. , 2014 ) .
The negative sampling ratio K was set to 4 .
Adam ( Kingma and Ba , 2014 ) was chosen as the optimizer and the size of a minibatch was 30 .
In addition , the loss weights ? and ? were respectively set to 0.4 and 10 .
These hyperparameters were tuned on the validation set .
To evaluate the performance of news recommendation , we use metrics including AUC , MRR , nDCG@5 and nDCG@10 8 . Since there is no off- the-shelf metric to evaluate the sentiment diversity of news recommendation , motivated by the MRR and hit ratio metrics , we propose three metrics named Senti M RR , Senti@5 and Senti@10 to quantitatively measure sentiment diversity .
They are computed as follows : Senti M RR = max ( 0 , s C i=1 s c i i ) , Senti@5 = max ( 0 , s 5 i=1 s c i ) , Senti@10 = max ( 0 , s 10 i=1 s c i ) , ( 8 ) where C is the number of candidate news in an impression , s c i denotes the sentiment score of the candidate news with the i-th highest click score .
In these metrics , higher scores indicate that the recommendation results are less diverse from the browsed news in their sentiment .
9
We repeated each experiment 10 times and reported the average results over all impressions in terms of the recommendation performance and sentiment diversity .
Performance Evaluation
We evaluate the recommendation performance and sentiment diversity of our approach by comparing it with several baseline methods , including : ( 1 ) LibFM ( Rendle , 2012 ) , a feature - based recommendation method based on factorization machine .
TF - IDF features are used to represent the textual content of news .
( 2 ) EBNR ( Okura et al. , 2017 ) , an embedding - based neural news recommendation method .
It uses denoising autoencoders to learn news representations and a GRU network to encode user representations .
( 3 ) DKN ( Wang et al. , 2018 ) , a knowledge - aware news recommendation method , which learns news representations via knowledgeaware CNN networks and learns user representations with a candidate - aware attention network .
( 4 ) Conv3D ( Khattar et al. , 2018 ) , a neural news recommendation method which learns news representations using 2 - D CNN models and learns user representations using a 3 - D CNN model .
( 5 ) DAN ( Zhu et al. , 2019 ) , a neural news recommendation method which learns news representations from title and entities with two independent CNN models and learns user representations using attentive LSTM network .
( 6 ) NPA ( Wu et al. , 2019 b ) , a neural news recommendation method which learns news and user representations via personalized attention mechanism .
( 7 ) NAML
( Wu et al. , 2019a ) , a neural news recommendation method which learns news representations with CNN models and learns user representations using attention networks .
( 8 ) NRMS ( Wu et al. , 2019 c ) , a neural news recommendation method which learns news and representations using multi-head self-attention and additive attention networks .
For fair comparison , in all methods we used news titles to learn news representations .
In addition , we compare the sentiment diversity of random news ranking , which aims to show the benchmark sentiment diversity without news and user modeling .
Besides , we also compare a variant of our method ( denoted as SentiRec-same ) which only recommends the news with the same sentiment polarity with the browsed news ( filter the candidate news with different sentiment polarity ) , which aims to show the scores of an extreme case with minimal sentiment diversity .
The results of recommendation performance and sentiment diversity are summarized in Tables 2 and 3 .
From these results , we find that neural news recommendation approaches achieve better recommendation performance than LibFM .
This is probably because neural networks can learn more informative news and user representations than traditional matrix factorization methods .
However , compared with random ranking , we find that the diver - sity scores of all baseline methods are much larger , especially those based on neural networks .
This is probably because the compared baseline methods mainly recommend news based on the relevance between candidate news and browsed news , and will tend to recommend news with similar sentiment orientation with browsed news , which is harmful for users to receive diverse news information .
Different from baseline methods , our SentiRec approach can achieve much better sentiment diversity even than random ranking .
These results show that our approach can actively recommend news with diverse sentiment from browsed news .
In addition , our approach can also achieve better recommendation performance than baseline methods .
These results validate that our approach can achieve the goal of improving sentiment diversity in news recommendation without hurting the recommendation performance .
Besides , by comparing SentiRec and its variant SentiRec-same , although the recommendation performance of SentiRec-same is slightly better , the sentiment of its recommendation results are minimally diverse from browsed news , which may amplify the problem of filter bubble and hurt user experience .
Ablation Study
In this section , we conduct ablation studies to verify the influence of the auxiliary sentiment prediction task in the sentiment - aware news encoder and the sentiment diversity regularization method on the recommendation performance and sentiment diversity .
The results are shown in Fig. 6 . From Fig. 6 , we find that the sentiment prediction task can improve both sentiment diversity and recommendation performance .
This may be because this auxiliary task can encourage the news encoder to 51 exploit the sentiment information in news texts to encode sentiment - aware news representations , which is beneficial for predicting news clicks more accurately and further improving sentiment diversity by modeling users ' dynamic preferences on news sentiment .
In addition , the sentiment diversity regularization can also effectively improve the sentiment diversity of news recommendation and meanwhile keep the recommendation performance .
This is because this regularization method can enforce the model to recommend news with different sentiment orientations with the browsed news .
Moreover , combining both techniques can further improve sentiment diversity , which verifies the effectiveness of our SentiRec method .
Influence of Hyperparameters
In this section , we will explore the influence of two important hyperparameters on our approach , i.e. , the loss coefficients ? and ? in Eq. ( 7 ) on the performance and sentiment diversity of our approach .
Since there are two hyperparameters , we first vary the value of ? to find the optimal one to learn sentiment - aware news representations in our approach .
The results are illustrated in Fig. 7 . According to Fig. 7 , we find both sentiment diversity and recommendation performance of our approach improves when ? increases from 0 .
This is probably because when ? is too small , the useful sentiment information in news cannot be fully exploited .
However , the performance of our approach starts to decline when ? is too large .
This may be because when ? is too large , the auxiliary sentiment prediction task is over-emphasized and the news recommendation task is not fully respected .
Thus , a moderate ? ( e.g. , 0.4 ) is more appropriate for our approach to make a tradeoff between recommendation performance and sentiment diversity .
Then , we vary the value of ? under ? = 0.4 to evaluate the recommendation performance and sentiment diversity of our approach .
10
The results are illustrated in Fig. 8 .
According to the results , we find the sentiment diversity can be consistently improved when ? increases .
This is probably because when ?
is larger , the model is regularized more intensively and may tend to recommend more news with diverse sentiment from browsed news .
However , when ?
goes too large , the performance in terms of AUC declines significantly , which may hurt user experience .
Thus , a moderate selection on ? ( e.g. , 10 ) is appropriate to achieve the goal of recommending news with diverse sentiment and meanwhile keep good recommendation performance .
Case Study
In this section , we present several case studies to better demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in improving sentiment diversity of news recommendation .
The clicked news of a randomly selected user as well as the top ranked candidate news recommended by a state - of - the - art method NRMS and our SentiRec approach are shown in Table 4 .
We can see that the historical browsed news of this user are mainly about negative topics such as crime , which usually convey negative sentiment .
However , the NRMS method still intensively recommends news with negative sentiment such as " Sheriff : California officer 's killer ... " .
It indicates that NRMS tends to recommend news with similar sentiment to the browsed news , which is not suitable for users to acquire diverse news information .
Different from NRMS , our approach can effectively recommend news with diverse sentiment from browsed news , and the recommended news also has some inherent relatedness with browsed news in their content ( e.g. , both the first candidate news and the third browsed news mention " fashion " ) .
It shows that our approach can improve the sentiment diversity of news recommendation and meanwhile keep recommendation accuracy .
Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper , we propose a sentiment diversityaware neural news recommendation approach which can effectively recommend news with diverse sentiment from browsed news .
We propose a sentiment - aware news encoder to learn sentimentaware news representations by jointly training it with an auxiliary sentiment prediction task .
We learn user representations from representations of browsed news , and compute click scores based on user and candidate news representations .
In addition , we propose a sentiment diversity regularization method to regularize the model according to the overall sentiment orientation of browsed news as well as the click scores and sentiment scores of candidate news .
Extensive experiments on realworld benchmark dataset validate that our approach can effectively enhance the sentiment diversity of news recommendation without hurting the recommendation performance .
In our future work , we plan to analyze the sentiment on the entities in news and explore to improve the entity - level sentiment diversity of news recommendation .
In addition , we plan to extend sentiment polarities to more kinds of emotions , such as angry , happiness , sad and surprise , to enhance the emotion diversity of news recommendation .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Several news browsed by two users of MSN News and the candidate news recommended to them .
