title
SSA - UO : Unsupervised Twitter Sentiment Analysis
abstract
This paper describes the specifications and results of SSA - UO , unsupervised system , presented in SemEval 2013 for Sentiment Analysis in Twitter ( Task 2 ) ( Wilson et al. , 2013 ) .
The proposal system includes three phases : data preprocessing , contextual word polarity detection and message classification .
The preprocessing phase comprises treatment of emoticon , slang terms , lemmatization and POS - tagging .
Word polarity detection is carried out taking into account the sentiment associated with the context in which it appears .
For this , we use a new contextual sentiment classification method based on coarse-grained word sense disambiguation , using WordNet ( Miller , 1995 ) and a coarse- grained sense inventory ( sentiment inventory ) built up from SentiWordNet ( Baccianella et al. , 2010 ) .
Finally , the overall sentiment is determined using a rule-based classifier .
As it may be observed , the results obtained for Twitter and SMS sentiment classification are good considering that our proposal is unsupervised .
Introduction
The explosion of Web 2.0 has marked a new age for the human society .
The huge use of Social Media such as Facebook 1 , MySpace 2 , LinkedIn 3 and Twitter 4 , offers a place for people to share information in real time .
Twitter is one of the most popular social network websites and has been growing at a very fast pace .
The number of active users exceeds 500 million and the number of tweets posted by day exceeds 500 million ( as of May 2012 ) 5 .
Through the twitter applications , users shared opinions about personalities , politicians , products , companies , events , etc .
This has been attracting the attention of different research communities interested in analyzing its content and motivated many natural language tasks , such as sentiment analysis , emotions detection , opinions retrieval , product recommendation or opinion summarization .
One of the most popular sentiment analysis tasks is polarity classification .
This task is a new field that classifies opinion texts as positive , negative or neutral ( Pang et al. , 2002 ; Turney , 2002 ; Esuli and Sebastiani , 2006 ; Wilson et al. , 2006 ; Wiegand et al. , 2010 ) .
Determining polarity might seem an easy task , as many words have some polarity by themselves .
However , words do not always express the same sentiment , and in most cases the polarity of a word depends on the context in which the word is used .
So , terms that clearly denote negative feelings can be neutral , or even positive , depending on their context .
Hence , sentiment analysis systems should include semantic -level analysis in order to solve word ambiguity and correctly capture the meaning of each word according to its context .
Also , complex linguistic processing is needed to deal with problems such as the effect of negations and informal language .
Moreover , understanding the sentimental meaning of the different textual units is important to accurately determine the overall polarity of a text .
In this paper , we present a system that has as main objective to analyze the sentiments of tweets and classify these as positive , negative or neutral .
The proposal system includes three phases : data preprocessing , contextual word polarity detection and message classification .
The preprocessing phase comprises treatment of emoticons , spell-errors , slang terms , lemmatization and POS - tagging .
Word polarity detection is carried out taking into account the sentiment associated with the context within which it appears .
For this , we use a new contextual sentiment classification method based on coarse-grained word sense disambiguation , using WordNet ( Miller , 1995 ) and a coarse- grained sense inventory ( sentiment inventory ) built up from SentiWordNet ( Baccianella et al. , 2010 ) .
Finally , the polarity is determined using a rule-based classifier .
The paper is organized as follows .
Section 2 describes of SSA - UO system .
In Section 3 we evaluate our proposal and discuss the results obtained in the SemEval 2013 Task No .
2 . Finally , section 4 provides concluding remarks .
SSA - UO System
We use an unsupervised strategy consisting in a coarse-grained clustering - based word sense disambiguation ( WSD ) method that differentiates positive , negative , highly positive , highly negative and objective uses of every word on context which it occurs .
The proposal method uses WordNet and a coarsegrained sense inventory ( sentiment inventory ) built up from SentiWordNet .
The overall architecture of our sentiment classifier is shown in Figure 1 . Firstly , data preprocessing is done to eliminate incomplete , noisy or inconsistent information .
A Sentiment Word Sense Disambiguation method ( Section 2.3 ) is then applied to content words ( nouns , adjectives , verbs and adverbs ) .
Once all content words are disambiguated , we apply a rule- based classifier ( Section 2.4 ) to decide whether the tweet is positive , negative or neutral .
Unsupervised word sense disambiguation method proposed by ( Anaya - S?nchez et al. , 2006 ) was adapted for sentiment word sense disambiguation .
Unlike the authors , who aim to obtain the correct sense of a word , we use the method to determine when a word is used with highly positive ( HP ) , positive ( P ) , highly negative ( HN ) , negative ( N ) or objective ( O ) meaning based on a sentiment sense inventory .
We make sentiment sense inventory based on sense-level annotation in SentiWordNet .
Finally , we apply a rule- based classifier to determine the overall sentiment in tweet .
Data Preprocessing
The tweets differ from the text in articles , books , or even spoken language .
It is limited to 140 characters , also includes many idiosyncratic uses , such as emoticons , slang terms , misspellings , URLs , " RT " for re-tweet , " @ " for user mentions , " # " for hashtags , and character repetitions .
Therefore it is necessary to preprocess the text , in order to reduce the noise information .
The preprocessing step involve the following task .
The text is tokenized and URL , re-tweets and author mentions are removed .
Hashtag tokens frequently contain relevant information related to the topic of the tweet , this is included as part of the text but without the " # " character .
We replace emoticon tokens by emotion words using an emoticons dictionary , obtained from Wikipedia 6 . Each emoticon was manually annotated with an emotion word and polarity value .
Emoticons that suggest positive emotions -" :- ) " , " : ) " , " X - D " - are annotated with the emotion word " happy " and negative emoticons -" :-( " , " :-c " , " : , ( " - are annotated with the emotion word " sad " .
The presence of abbreviations within a tweet is noted , therefore abbreviations are replaced by their meaning ( e.g. , LOLlaughing out loud ) using a dictionary 7 . Finally the text is POS - tagged and lemmatized using TreeTagger ( Schmid , 1994 ) and stopwords are discarded .
Sentiment Sense Inventory
We considered SentiWordNet for building sentiment coarse-grained sense inventory .
SentiWordNet contain positive , negative and objective scores between 0 and 1 for all senses in WordNet .
Based on this sense level annotation , we define a new rule ( SentiS ) for classifying senses in five sentiment class .
The senses are classified in the following manner ( Alexandra et al. , 2009 ) : senses whose positive score is greater than or equal to 0.75 are considered to be highly positive ( HP ) , senses with positive score greater than or equal to 0.5 and lower than 0.75 are considered positive ( P ) , senses with negative score greater than or equal 0.75 are considered highly negative ( HN ) , whereas those whose negative score is lower than 0.75 and greater than or equal to 0.5 are considered to be negative ( N ) .
In the remaining cases , the senses are considered to be objective ( O ) ( see equation ( 1 ) ) .
sentiS ( s ) = ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? HP i f ScoreP ( s ) ? 0.75 HN i f ScoreN ( s ) ? 0.75 P i f ScoreP ( s ) < 0.75 and ScoreP ( s ) ? 0.5 N i f ScoreN ( s ) < 0.75 and ScoreN ( s ) ? 0.5
O in other case ( 1 ) Table 1 summarizes the distribution of the five sentiment classes once classified all senses of Sen-tiWordNet .
A notable unbalance can be observed between the number of highly positive , highly negative , positive , negative and objective senses .
Once all senses were classified in a five sentiment sense class , we create a coarse sense inventory based on this classification .
This inventory is defined in the following manner :
For each word in SentiWordNet we grouped its senses with the same sentiment class in a single sense ( coarse-sense ) , in case of objective senses these are kept separated .
Contextual Word Polarity Detection
Much work on sentiment analysis have been directed to determine the polarity of opinion using anotated lexicons with prior polarity ( Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown , 1997 ; Kamps and Marx , 2002 ; Turney , 2002 ) .
However a word can modify your prior polarity in relation to the context within which it is invoked .
For example the word " earthquake " is used with negative meaning in the sentence : " Selling the company caused an earthquake amount the employees " .
Whereas it is used in an neutral meaning in the sentence : " An earthquake is the result of a sudden release of energy in the Earth 's crust that creates seismic waves " .
For this reason , our system uses a coarse- grained WSD method for obtaining the contextual polarity of all words in tweets .
The selected disambiguation method ( Anaya - S?nchez et al. , 2006 ) was developed for the traditional WSD task .
In this WSD method , the senses are represented as topic signatures ( Lin and Hovy , 2000 ) built from the repository of concepts of WordNet .
The disambiguation process starts from a clustering distribution of all possible senses of the ambiguous words by applying the Extended Star clustering algorithm ( Gil - Garc ? a et al. , 2003 ) .
Such a clustering tries to identify cohesive groups of word senses , which are assumed to represent different meanings for the set of words .
Then , clusters that match the best with the context are selected .
If the selected clusters disambiguate all words , the process stops and the senses belonging to the selected clusters are interpreted as the disambiguating ones .
Otherwise , the clustering is performed again ( regarding the remaining senses ) until a complete disambiguation is achieved .
It does not distinguish between highly positive , positive , negative , highly negative or objective meaning of a word .
Resource
In this paper , we propose a strategy to built a coarsegrained sense representation .
Firstly , a topic signatures for all senses into WordNet is built and the topic signatures for coarse- grained senses is the sum of the topic signatures of the corresponding finegrained senses that was grouped .
We explain coarse-grained sense representation using the following example : Let us consider the adjective " sad " .
This adjective has three word senses into WordNet 2.0 sad # a# 1 - experiencing or showing sorrow or unhappiness sad # a# 2 - of things that make you feel sad sad # a# 3 - bad ; unfortunate Firstly the topic signature are built for each word sense : vector1 = topicSignature ( sad # a # 1 ) vector2 = topicSignature ( sad # a # 2 ) vector3 = topicSignature ( sad # a # 3 )
The senses are classified using equation ( 1 ) ( in Section 2.2 ) , sense 1 and 3 were considered as highly negative , whereas the sense 2 is objective .
The topic signature associated to highly negative coarse- grained sense is computed as : topicSignature ( sad # a # HN ) = sum( vector1 + vector3 ) and objective coarse- grained sense is kept as vector2 topicSignature ( sad # a # O ) = vector2
Rule- based Sentiment Classifier
We use a rule- based classifier to classify tweets into positive , negative or neutral .
A polarity value is as-signed to each word , based on equation 2 , after these were disambiguated .
It is necessary to clarify that emotion words that replaced emoticons in the preprocessing phase , are not disambiguated .
Instead , we give a prior polarity value equal to 4 if emotion word is " happy " and - 4 in case that emotion word is " sad " .
It is important to mention that the polarity of a word is forced into the opposite class if it is preceded by a valence shifter ( obtained from the Negate category in GI ( Stone et al. , 1966 ) ) . polarity ( w ) = ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? 4 ?4 2 ?2 0 i f w is disambiguated as HP i f w is disambiguated as HN i f w is disambiguated as P i f w is disambiguated as N i f w is disambiguated as O ( 2 )
The polarity of the tweet is determined from the scores of positive and negative words it contains .
To sum up , for each tweet the overall positive ( PosS ( t ) ) value and overall negative value ( NegS ( t ) ) , are computed as : PosS ( t ) = ? w i ?W P polarity ( w i ) ( 3 ) W P : Words disambiguated as highly positive or positive in tweet t NegS ( t ) = ? w i ?W N polarity ( w i ) ( 4 ) W N : Words disambiguated as highly negative or negative in tweet t If PosS ( t ) is greater than NegS ( t ) then the tweet is considered as positive .
On the contrary , if PosS ( t ) is less than NegS ( t ) the tweet is negative .
Finally , if PosS ( t ) is equal to NegS ( t ) the tweet is considered as neutral .
A Tweet Sentiment Classification Example
The general operation of the algorithm is illustrated in the following example :
Let us consider the following tweet : @ JoeyMarchant : I really love Jennifer Aniston :-) # loving , she is very cooooollll and sexy .
I 'm married to her ... LOL , http://t.co/2RShsRNSDW
After applying the preprocessing phase , we obtain the following normalized text : I really love Jennifer Aniston " happy " loving , she is very cooll and sexy .
I 'm married to her ... lots of laughs .
When the text is lemmatized and stopwords are removed , we obtain the following bag of words ( for each word we show : lemma and part- of-speech nnoun , v-verb , a-adjective , r-adverb and u-unknown ) : really #r love #v jennifer # a aniston#n " happy " # a loving # a cooll # a sexy # a marry # v lot #n laugh #n .
After contextual word polarity detection , we obtain the following result ( for each word we shown lemma , part- of-speech and sentiment sense , HP - highly positive , HN - highly negative , P-positive , N-negative and O-objective ) .
Once that all words were disambiguated we obtained their polarities using the equation 2 introduced in section 2.4 .
We show the polarities values assigned to each word , in Note that the word " happy " has not been disambiguated , its polarity is assigned according to the emoticon associated in the original tweet .
Afterward we compute overall positive and negative polarity value : NegS ( t ) = 0 PosS ( t ) = 2 + 2 + 4 + 4 + 2 + 2 = 16
Therefore , the tweet t is classified as positive .
Results
This section presents the evaluation of our system in the context of SemEval 2013 Task No.2 Subtask B ( Sentiment Analysis in Twitter ) .
For evaluating the participant 's systems two unlabeled datasets were provided , one composed of Twitter messages and another of SMS messages .
For each dataset two runs can be submitted , the first ( constrained ) , the system can only be used the provided training data and other resources such as lexicons .
In the second ( unconstrained ) , the system can use additional data for training .
Our runs are considered as constrained because SSA - UO only use lexical resources for sentiment classification .
Runs Dataset F1 all runs Rank twitter -1 Twitter 50.17 33 ( 48 ) sms -1 SMS 44.39 33 ( 42 ) In Table 3 we summarize the results obtained by SSA - UO system .
As may be observed average F1 measure for Twitter dataset is the 50.17 and 44.39 for the SMS dataset .
A total of 48 runs were submitted by all systems participant 's in Twitter and 42 for SMS dataset .
Our runs were ranked 33 th for both datasets .
In Table 4 we compare our results with those runs that can be considered as constrained .
A total of 35 runs for Twitter and 28 for SMS were submitted , ours runs were ranked in 25 th and 22 th respectively .
It 's worth mentioning that , the results obtained can be considered satisfactory , considering the complexity of the task and that our system is unsupervised .
Conclusion
In this paper , we have described the SSA - UO system for Twitter Sentiment Analysis Task at SemEval - 2013 .
This knowledge driven system relies on unsupervised coarse- grained WSD to obtain the contextual word polarity .
We used a rule- based classifier for determining the polarity of a tweet .
The experimental results show that our proposal is accurate for Twitter sentiment considering that our system does not use any corpus for training .
Theresa Wilson , Zornitsa Kozareva , Preslav Nakov , Sara Rosenthal , Veselin Stoyanov , and Alan Ritter .
2013 . SemEval - 2013 task 2 : Sentiment analysis in twitter .
In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation , SemEval ' 13 , June .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Overall architecture of Sentiment Classifier
