title
DebugSL : An Interactive Tool for Debugging Sentiment Lexicons
abstract
We introduce DebugSL , a visual ( Web ) debugging tool for sentiment lexicons ( SLs ) .
Its core component implements our algorithms for the automatic detection of polarity inconsistencies in SLs .
An inconsistency is a set of words and / or word-senses whose polarity assignments cannot all be simultaneously satisfied .
DebugSL finds inconsistencies of small sizes in SLs and has a rich user interface which helps users in the correction process .
s?S( w ) f ( w , s ) = 1 for all w .
Introduction
The problem of Sentiment Analysis ( SA ) is that of identifying the polarity ( positive , negative , neutral ) of the speaker towards the topic of a given piece of text .
SA techniques are facilitated by Sentiment Lexicons ( SLs ) , which are lists of words or word-senses tagged with their a priori polarity probability values .
A tag may be a single value , e.g. , positive , or it may be a distribution .
The large number of SLs and methods to generate them renders errors and disagreements inevitable ( Liu , 2015 ; Feldman , 2013 ) .
Numerous works raise the issue of polarity disagreements between SLs and its negative impact on SA tasks ( Potts , 2011 ; Emerson and Declerck , 2014 ; Liu , 2015 ) . Schneider and Dragut ( 2015 ) gives examples of SLs that disagree on up to 78 % of their annotations and shows that the accuracy of an SA task can improve by 8.5 % by correcting a modest number of inconsistencies in an SL .
Dragut et al. ( 2012 ) introduces the Polarity Consistency Problem ( PCP ) which provides a framework for identifying inconsistent polarity annotations in SLs based on the interaction between words and their underlying shared senses ( synsets ) .
; Dragut and Fellbaum ( 2014 ) ; Schneider and further developed the theoretical basis of the PCP .
In this work we present DebugSL , an SL consistency checker and debugger system that implements the methods developed in those works for solving the PCP , in a user friendly environment .
Given an SL as input , DebugSL automatically detects entries with potentially incorrect polarity tags and displays these entries in a bipartite graph to facilitate correction efforts .
DebugSL interfaces with external sources , such as Dictionary.com , to assist in the debugging process .
Background
We give a brief overview of the PCP and our methods to solve it in this section .
The interested reader is directed to Dragut et al .
( 2012 ; Dragut and Fellbaum ( 2014 ) ; Schneider and for full details .
Polarity Probability
Every word and synset is taken to have an underlying discrete probability distribution , called a polarity distribution , carrying the a priori probability it is used with a positive , negative , or neutral sense , P + , P ? and P 0 , respectively , with the requirements that P + , P ? , P 0 ? 0 and p P p = 1 .
For instance , the synset " worthy of reliance or trust " of the adjective reliable has P + = .375 , P ? = .0 and P 0 = .625 in the SL Senti-WordNet ( Baccianella et al. , 2010 ) .
The polarity distribution of a word is a weighted sum over the polarity distributions of its senses .
For word w : P p ( w ) = s?S ( w ) f ( w , s ) ? P p ( s ) , where P p ( s ) is the polarity value of synset s with polarity p ? {+ , ? , 0 } , S ( w ) is the set of all synsets of w , and f ( w , s ) denotes the weight between word w and sense s .
The weights may be the wordsynset usage frequencies ; they may also be drawn from uniform , Zipfian , or geometric distributions .
In all cases the weights are normalized so that
Word Polarity Value Word SLs often only give a discrete annotation tag for a word , one of the values : positive ( + ) , negative ( - ) , or neutral ( 0 ) .
We call this a polarity value .
We determine polarity value for a word as follows : polarity ( w ) = ? ? ? + if P + > P ? + P 0 , ? if P ? > P + + P 0 , 0 otherwise Schneider and discusses alternatives for these equations .
Polarity Consistency
In this context , the PCP amounts to the following question : Given a set of words and polarity tags from an SL , does there exist an assignment of polarities to the word senses such that all of the word polarity values agree with the SL tags ?
If the answer is yes we say the SL in question is consistent .
If the answer is no we say the SL is inconsistent .
Figure 1 shows a network of 4 words with their annotation tags from ( Opinion Finder ) OF ( Wilson et al. , 2005 ) and their related synsets which comprise a connected component .
w 3 : pertinacity and w 4 : tenacity are tagged ? and + , respectively .
Since both words share only one synset , s 3 , there is no polarity distribution for s 3 which can simultaneously satisfy the polarity value demands of both w 3 and w 4 . Hence this component is inconsistent .
Solving the PCP via Linear Programming Using the above definitions , the conversion to an LP problem follows a direct procedure .
We refer the interested reader to Schneider and for the details .
DebugSL supports both discrete and continuous polarity distributions of the synsets .
In the discrete case , the synset polarity distributions are restricted to the set { 0,1 } , i.e. , exactly one of P + , P ? , or P 0 is 1 and the other two are 0 , for each synset ; this corresponds to an integer LP problem .
For the continuous case , each of P + , P ? , or P 0 is in the range [ 0 , 1 ] , which corresponds to a general LP problem over real numbers .
In the discrete case PCP is NP - complete , while for the continuous case the problem is solvable in polynomial time ( Dragut et al. , 2012 ; Schneider and Dragut , 2015 ) .
Supporting SL Debugging
A key capability of DebugSL is that of isolating a ( small ) subset of words / synsets that is polarity inconsistent , but becomes consistent if one element is removed ; we call this an Irreducible Polarity Inconsistent Subset ( IPIS ) .
Fixing an SL via IPIS isolation proceeds iteratively : ( 1 ) isolate an IPIS , ( 2 ) determine a repair for this IPIS , ( 3 ) if the model is still infeasible , return to step 1 .
DebugSL can deterministically identify an IPIS , but it cannot deterministically decide which inconsistent words and / or senses to adjust as this is simply not an objective decision .
Much like a software debugger , which can identify a known programming error , say the use of an undefined variable , but cannot assign a value to the variable , our debugger can identify inconsistent components , but it does not decide which elements to adjust .
In Figure 1 , minimally one of pertinacity (-) and tenacity ( + ) must be adjusted , but the decision as to which requires user feedback .
The example of Figure 1 belies the complexity of the PCP .
DebugSL employs a divide and conquer approach , dividing an instance of PCP into the connected components of the bipartite wordsynset graph , then solving for each component separately .
Running DebugSL on OF generates 1178 such components for adjectives alone ; the largest component has 914 unique words and 1880 unique synsets .
Manually checking such SLs is unrealistic .
System Overview DebugSL follows a four-step procedure to identify and reduce lexicon inconsistency .
( 1 ) The user uploads a formatted SL to the DebugSL system .
( 2 ) A server -side program uses the lexical database WordNet ( WN ) ( Fellbaum , 1998 ) to form the underlying word-synset graph of the SL and checks for inconsistencies .
( 3 ) Inconsistent components are returned to the client and they are displayed 1 . Input .
The user begins by uploading an SL to DebugSL and specifying various interface options , such as the part of speech and the version of WN to use .
After the lexicon has been successfully uploaded , the user can download the ( modified ) lexicon , or save it in the system .
Lexicon Inconsistency Checking .
A serverside Java program builds the connected components of word-synset linkage .
DebugSL checks the consistency of each connected component .
Inconsistent components are returned to the client .
Component Display .
A JavaScript process receives the inconsistent components from the server and formats them to be understood by the graphing library SigmaJS which displays the inconsistent components to the user .
Interactive Viewing and User Analysis .
The interactive viewing is essential to our tool because it allows a user to focus on a small set of inconsistent words or synsets , make adjustments , and re-run the program to see the effects .
Software DebugSL is developed using web technologies .
Client side work is completed using HTML 5 , CSS , and JavaScript .
The graphs are structured using the open source JavaScript library SigmaJS .
The client-side program is programmed in Java and is called through a Java Servlet .
For linear programming DebugSL employs the GUROBI LP solver ( www.gurobi.com) .
Apache Tomcat is used as the local server .
Interactive Features Customizable Polarity Display .
DebugSL displays the word polarities from the uploaded SL on the word-synset graph .
By default , the polarities are shown by node color : green , red , and grey for positive , negative , and neutral , respectively .
These color choices are customizable .
The user can switch to display polarities by symbols : + , ? , and 0 , instead , or use both symbols and colors .
Component and Word Selection .
Inconsistent components are listed on the left represented by the first word of each component .
An ellipsis indicates the presence of additional words .
When a component is selected , its words are expanded into a sublist ( Figure 3a on the left ) .
All Viewing and Progressive Viewing .
Two modes of viewing the graph are available .
In All Viewing mode all checked words and synsets are visible .
Clicking on a word or synset hides any edges not associated with that word or synset .
Progressive Viewing mode allows the user to build the desired connected graph by progressively adding words .
Clicking a word node hides other words and reveals its associated synsets .
Clicking a revealed synset hides all but the associated words and edges .
The user may use any selected word or synset as a base for building the graph .
Holding shift allows words to be added progressively .
Dictionary Query .
The user may look up the senses of any word from an online dictionary by right-clicking .
This functionality is currently implemented to interface with three online dictionaries : Merriam-Webster ( www .
merriam-webster.com ) , Dictionary.com ( www.dictionary.com), and the Free Dictionary ( www.thefreedictionary.com).
The dictionary appears to the right of the graph window with the results of the word lookup .
Right - clicking a new word , automatically updates the dictionary area .
Identifying Missing Senses in WordNet
In some cases , when an inconsistency is identified , the user may decide that the polarity assignments are correct and the error is in fact due to a missing sense in WN .
DebugSL allows the user to check for potentially missing senses in WN .
As an example , the verbs " tantalize " and " taunt , " have positive and negative polarities , respectively , in Opinion Finder ( Wilson et al. , 2005 ) .
They also have a shared , unique sense in WN .
By our formula- tion , this leads to a contradiction .
In this case the Free Dictionary gives a second sense of tantalize that is missing from WN : " to be strongly attractive to .
. . " .
This sense conveys a positive polarity .
Hence , tantalize conveys a positive sentiment when used with this sense , and the inconsistency is not due to a mislabeling in the SL .
When the user utilizes the online dictionary lookup feature , the dictionary senses ( definitions ) of the word are automatically matched to their corresponding best matching synsets in the WN graph , using the Levenshtein edit distance and the Gale - Shapley stable marriage matching algorithm ( Gale and Shapley , 1962 ) .
If a relevant sense appears to be missing from WN , the user can log a note of the missing synset with us and we can , in turn , provide this information to the WN team ( Dragut and Fellbaum , 2014 ) .
Demonstration
We present two main scenarios to demonstrate the practical usefulness of DebugSL , screenshots of which are shown in Figure 3 .
The source code is available at https://github.com/ atschneid / DebugSL .
1 . Iterative SL Debugging :
This commences with a user uploading an SL , L .
The user must turn a few knobs , e.g. , select the part of speech , weighting scheme , and WN version .
DebugSL displays the discovered sets of polarity inconsistencies on the left side .
Let I be an IPIS the user has selected .
This demo scenario has two paths : Debugging .
The user attempts to correct polarity values assigned to the entries in I .
Most IPISs consist of up to 4 words ; very few have more than 8 .
This aids in holding the user 's focus .
The user can use the bipartite view in DebugSL to analyze the words and their sense and determine if some entries in I have wrong polarity tags .
Upon iden- tifying a mislabeled entry in I , the user can edit its polarity value ( see Figure 3a ) , then repeat the consistency check again on the revised SL , and analyze any new or remaining IPISs .
At any time , the user can save , revisit , and eventually download the revised of L. Missing Senses .
If all the entries in I have the correct polarity tags , there remains the possibility that WN has incomplete information .
DebugSL allows the user to compare the synsets of a word w in I with those of w in several online dictionaries ( Figure 3a , see the popup menu in the center ) .
The user selects a dictionary to reference and the senses of w from this dictionary will appear beside the graph .
DebugSL matches the WN synsets with the dictionary senses ( see Figure 3 ) .
The user can suggest via DebugSL a sense present in Dictionary .
com for w that is missing in WN .
We store all the suggestions .
2 . Comparing Two SLs :
This second demo scenario uncovers the disagreement between two SLs : typically one word annotating , S w , ( e.g. , OF ) and one synset annotating , S s , ( e.g. , SentiWord - Net ) .
The formal procedure for this functionality is described at length in Schneider and .
The output is the collection of graphs of components with inconsistencies .
DebugSL can also compare two word annotating SLs or two sense annotating SLs wherein DebugSL checks for agreement .
Conclusion
In this paper we have presented the system DebugSL and described its usage .
The project source code is available at https://github.
com/ atschneid / DebugSL and a screencast can be viewed at https://cis.temple.
edu / ?edragut / DebugSL.webm .
The system will be deployed online for use by the public .
Figure 1 : A network of 4 words and 3 synsets .
Edges represent word-synset relations , weighted by frequency .
