title
Modeling Sentiment Association in Discourse for Humor Recognition
abstract
Humor is one of the most attractive parts in human communication .
However , automatically recognizing humor in text is challenging due to the complex characteristics of humor .
This paper proposes to model sentiment association between discourse units to indicate how the punchline breaks the expectation of the setup .
We found that discourse relation , sentiment conflict and sentiment transition are effective indicators for humor recognition .
On the perspective of using sentiment related features , sentiment association in discourse is more useful than counting the number of emotional words .
Introduction
Humor can be recognized as a cognitive process , which provokes laughter and provides amusement .
It not only promotes the success of human interaction , but also has a positive impact on human mental and physical health ( Martineau , 1972 ; Anderson and Arnoult , 1989 ; Lefcourt and Martin , 2012 ) .
To some extent , humor reflects a kind of intelligence .
However , from both theoretical and computational perspectives , it is hard for computers to build a mechanism for understanding humor like human beings .
First , humor is generally loosely defined .
Thus it is impossible to construct rules to identify humor .
Second , humor is context and background dependent that it expects to break the reader 's common sense within a specific situation .
Finally , the study of humor involves multiple disciplines like psychology , linguistics and computer science .
Recently , humor recognition has drawn more attention ( Mihalcea and Strapparava , 2005 Sentiment transition : positive-contrast-negative Figure 1 : An example of RST style discourse parsing , sentiment polarity analysis and the features we consider in this paper .
Friedland and Allan , 2008 ; Zhang and Liu , 2014 ; Yang et al. , 2015 ) .
The main trend is to design interpretable and computable features that can be well explained by humor theories and easy to be implemented in practice .
In this paper , we propose a novel idea to exploit sentiment analysis for humor recognition .
Considering superiority theory ( Gruner , 1997 ) and relief theory ( Rutter , 1997 ) , sentiment information should be common in humorous texts to express comparisons between good and bad or the emotion changes .
Existing work mainly considers statistical sentiment information such as the number of emotional words .
We argue that modeling sentiment association at discourse unit level should be a better option for exploiting sentiment information .
Such sentiment association in some extent can be used as sentiment patterns to describe the expectedness or unexpectedness , which is the main idea of incongruity theory ( Suls , 1972 ) .
To incorporate discourse information , we exploit RST ( Rhetorical Structure Theory ) style discourse parsing ( Mann and Thompson , 1988 ) to get discourse units and relations .
Combining with sentiment analysis , we derive discourse relation , sentiment conflict and sentiment transition fea-tures for humor recognition as shown in Figure 1 .
The experimental results show that our method can improve the performance of humor recognition on the dataset provided in ( Mihalcea and Strapparava , 2005 ) and exploiting sentiment information at discourse unit level is a better option compared with simply using the number of emotional words as features .
Humor Recognition Humor recognition is typically viewed as a classification problem ( Mihalcea and Strapparava , 2005 ) .
The main goal is to identify whether a given text contains humorous expressions .
Humor is a cognitive process .
Thus the interpretability of models is important .
Most existing work focuses on designing features motivated by humor theories from different perspectives .
Humor Theories
The highly recognized theories include superiority theory , relief theory and incongruity theory .
Superiority theory expresses that we laugh because some types of situations make us feel superior to other people ( Gruner , 1997 ) .
For example , in some jokes , people appear stupid because they have misunderstood an obvious situation or made a stupid mistake .
Relief theory says that humor is the release of nervous energy .
The nervous energy relieved through laughter is the energy of emotions that have been found to be inappropriate ( Spencer et al. , 1860 ; Rutter , 1997 ) .
Incongruity theory says that humor is the perception of something incongruous , something that violates our common sense and expectations ( Suls , 1972 ) .
It is now the dominant theory of humor in philosophy and psychology .
Baseline Features Motivated by the humor theories , many researchers design features to describe the characteristics of humor .
We mainly follow the recent work of Yang et al . ( 2015 ) to build baseline features .
The features are summarized as follows .
Incongruity Structure .
Inconsistency is considered as an important factor in causing laughter .
Following the work of Yang et al . ( 2015 ) , we describe inconsistency through the following two features : ?
The largest semantic distance between word pairs in a sentence ?
The smallest semantic distance between word pairs in a sentence
The semantic distance is measured by computing cosine similarity between word embeddings .
Ambiguity .
Ambiguity of semantic is a crucial part of humor ( Miller and Gurevych , 2015 ) , because ambiguity often causes incongruity , which comes from different understandings of the intention expressed by the author ( Bekinschtein et al. , 2011 ) .
The computation of ambiguity features is based on WordNet ( Fellbaum , 2012 ) .
We use WordNet to obtain all senses of each word w in an instance s and measure the possibility of ambiguity by computing log w?s num of sense ( w ) , which is used as the value of an ambiguity feature .
We also compute the sense farmost and sense closest features as described in ( Yang et al. , 2015 ) . Interpersonal Effect .
In addition to the commonly used linguistic cues , interpersonal effect may serve an important role in humor ( Zhang and Liu , 2014 ) .
It is believed that texts containing emotional words and subjective words are more likely to express humor .
Therefore , we use the following features based on the resources in ( Wilson et al. , 2005 ) . ?
The number of words with positive polarity ?
The number of words with negative polarity ?
The number of subjective words Phonetic Style .
Phonetics can also create comic effects .
Following ( Mihalcea and Strapparava , 2005 ) , we build a feature set which includes alliteration chain and rhyme chain by using CMU speech dictionary 1 .
An alliteration chain is a set of words that have the same first phoneme .
Similarly , a rhyme chain includes words with the same last syllable .
The features are : ?
The number of alliteration chains
The above five feature sets are denoted as Humor Centric Features ( HCF ) .
Word2 Vec Features .
Averaged word embeddings are used as sentence representations for classification .
Modeling Sentiment Association in Discourse
As described in humor theories and baseline features , emotional words are viewed as important indicators of humorous expressions , which trigger the subjective opinions and sentiment .
Previous work only considers the number of words with different sentiment polarity , but ignores the sentiment association in discourse .
Consider the example in Figure 1 again .
The first clause expresses a positive sentiment , while the second clause reveals a negative sentiment .
The different sentiment polarity forms a kind of contrast or comparison .
Such sentiment association can be explained with main humor theories .
For example , superiority theory says humor is the result of suddenly feeling superior when compared with others who are infirm or unfortunate .
There are usually two objects , one of the objects is a laugher who feel better than the other , a weak person .
The sentiment association between the perfect weight and the late height highlights such a comparison .
There are also other cases that may have sentiment association between negatively nervous and positively relief or from expected sentiment to unexpected sentiment , which can be explained with relief theory ( Rutter , 1997 ) and incongruity theory ( Suls , 1972 ; Ritchie , 1999 ) .
Therefore , sentiment association should be a useful representation to reveal the nature of humor .
In this paper , we utilize a discourse parser to get comparable text units and measure sentiment association among them .
Discourse Parsing
A well - written text is organized by text units which are connected to express the author 's intentions through certain discourse relations .
We use the discourse parser implemented by Feng and Hirst ( 2012 ) to automatically recognize RST style discourse relations .
RST struc-ture builds a hierarchical structure over the whole text ( Mann and Thompson , 1988 ) .
A coherent text is represented as a discourse tree , whose leaf nodes are individual text units called elementary discourse unites ( EDUs ) .
These independent EDUs can be connected through their relations .
The parser can automatically separate a sentence into EDUs and gives discourse relations between EDUs .
One of its advantage over others is that it can identify implicit relations , when no discourse marker is given .
2
There are about 77 % of sentences in our dataset that do n't have explicit connective .
Our goals of using discourse parsing include two aspects :
First , we want to investigate whether humorous texts prefer any discourse relations to realize or enhance the effect .
Second , EDUs can be used as comparable text units and enable us to measure sentiment association among them .
As a result , we derive three types of features .
Discourse Relation Features
For each instance , we recognize EDUs and the relations connecting them .
Then , we design boolean features to indicate the occurrence of discourse relations .
The main idea is that some discourse relations such as contrast usually indicate a topic transition , which may be used to achieve the effect of unexpectedness .
Sentiment Conflict Feature
The sentiment conflict we proposed is a specific and descriptive feature to model a kind of incongruity .
After dividing an instance into EDUs , we check the sentiment polarity of each EDU using the TextBlob toolkit 3 .
The sentiment polarity is either positive , negative or neutral .
The sentiment conflict feature is a boolean feature .
If there are at least two EDUs and their polarity are opposite ( positive vs. negative ) , the feature is set as True .
Sentiment Transition Features
Besides the heuristically designed sentiment conflict feature , we integrate sentiment polarity and discourse relations .
We thought that the expected sentiment might be dependent on the discourse relation .
For example , if two clauses have a sequence relation , their sentiment polarity may be expected to be the same , while if their relation is contrast , their polarity might be different .
For two EDUs with a discourse relation R , we get their sentiment polarity respectively , namely E 1 and E 2 , where E * ?
{ positive , negative , neutral} .
We design a feature E 1 ?R?E 2 , where ? indicates a concatenation operation and E 1 and E 2 are ordered according to the order in which they appear in the instance .
For sentence with more than two EDUs , we do this recursively and set a True value for every extracted features .
Experiments
Research Questions
We are interested in the following research questions : ?
Whether the proposed features are useful for humor recognition ? ?
Whether the way we manipulate sentiment is more effective compared with previous approaches ?
Settings
We conducted experiments on the dataset used by ( Mihalcea and Strapparava , 2005 ) .
The dataset contains 10,200 humorous short texts and 10000 non-humorous short texts coming from Reuters titles and Proverbs and British National Corpus ( RPBN ) .
We used the pre-trained word embeddings that are learned using the Word2Vec toolkit ( Mikolov et al. , 2013 ) on Google News dataset .
4
We used the implementation of Random Forest in Scikitlearn ( Pedregosa et al. , 2011 ) as the classifier .
We ran 10 - fold cross-validation on the dataset and the average performance would be reported .
Baselines ? HCF .
The method includes the incongruity structure , ambiguity , interpersonal effect , phonetic style features and KNN features .
? HCF w/o KNN .
Since KNN features used in HCF are content dependent .
We remove KNN features from HCF to have a content free baseline .
? Word2Vec .
As described in Section 2.2 , this method exploits semantic representations of sentences .
It is also content dependent but has better generalization capability .
? HCF + Word2Vec .
This method combines HCF and Word2Vec and is the strongest setting as reported in ( Yang et al. , 2015 ) .
System Comparisons
Table 1 shows the results , reported with accuracy ( Acc. ) , precision ( P ) , recall ( R ) and F 1 score .
We add sentiment association features ( SA ) to four baseline settings .
In all cases , the performance is improved .
Base2 only uses features that are motivated by humor theories without content features .
After adding SA features , Base2 achieves a significant improvement of 4 % in accuracy and 3.5 % in F 1 score .
Since SA features have good interpretability , they complement previous features very well both in theory and practice .
Base1 , Base3 and Base4 all consider content features and their performance is significantly better than Base2 .
However , since the negative instances in the dataset include news titles , it is very likely that the model matches specific topics of the data , rather than capturing the nature of humor .
We can see that the KNN method that is based on content similarity only can achieve high scores , which is unreasonable .
Even so , SA features still benefit the three baseline settings , although the improvements become small .
The results indicate that sentiment association features are useful for humor recognition , especially when domain specific information is not considered .
Comparing with Emotional Word Count Previous work also considers sentiment information but in a different way .
Among interpersonal effect features , the numbers of emotional words are used as features , noted as emotional word count , EWC for short .
We want to compare the sentiment association features with EWC .
We compare them in two conditions .
First , we replace EWC features with SA features in Base2 , which does n't use content information .
Second , we replace EWC features with SA features in Base4 , which considers all available information .
As shown inTable 2 , in both conditions , SA features are more effective , indicating the usefulness of analyzing sentiment polarity at EDU level .
Discussion of Sentiment Association Table 3 shows the results of adding individual sentiment association features on the basis of Base2 and Base4 .
All three features are shown to be useful for humor recognition .
Sentiment transition is most useful .
Again , when removing content features ( Base2 ) , the improvements are large .
In contrast , if considering content features ( Base4 ) , the improvements become small .
This is because the content features are already very strong for distinguishing two classes .
Discourse Relation .
By analyzing the data , we found that 79 % of the humorous instances contain more than one EDU , while 38 % of non-humorous messages contain more than one EDU .
This means that humorous texts may have more complex sentence structures .
The most frequent discourse relations in humorous data include condition , background and Contrast .
In contrast , non-humorous texts contain same -unit and attribution more .
The most discriminative relation is condition , which accounts for 4.5 % in humorous instances and 2 % in non-humorous instances .
This may be explained with the incongruity theory , where the setup of the text prepares an expectation for the readers , while the punchline breaks the expectation .
Condition relation is often used to connect the setup and the punchline .
Sentiment polarity in Humor .
According to the automatic sentiment analysis tool we use , 57 % of humorous instances have non-neutral polarity , while 47 % of non-humorous instances have nonneutral polarity .
This means that humor truly has a positive correlation with sentiment polarities and sentiment analysis should be a useful complement to semantic analysis for measuring incongruity .
In addition , as we have shown , measuring sentiment at discourse level should be more important .
Combining discourse relations and sentiment polarity performs best .
Conclusion
In this paper , we have studied humor recognition from a novel perspective : modeling sentiment association in discourse .
We integrate discourse parsing and sentiment analysis to get sentiment association patterns and measure incongruity in a new angle .
The proposed idea can be explained with major humor theories .
Experimental results also demonstrate the effectiveness of proposed features .
This indicates that sentiment association could be a better representation compared with simply analyzing the distribution of sentiment polarity for humor recognition .
; * corresponding author [ My weight is perfect for my height , ] EDU1 [ but your height is late for weight . ]
EDU2 Discourse relation : contrast Sentiment polarity : positive Sentiment polarity : negative Sentiment conflict : True
