title
Multimodal Machine Translation

abstract
Humans interact with the world through multiple modalities (hearing, vision, etc.). This is also true when understanding and generating language. Computational models for language processing, however, are traditionally limited to exploring language only (spoken or written). In this talk I will cover recent work in the area of multimodal machine learning for machine translation, where vision is used as additional modality, and where the goal is to achieve structured language grounding. I will also provide an overview on approaches that explore multimodality for language grounding in other sequence to sequence models: automatic speech recognition and spoken language translation.

Foreword The International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT) is an annually scientific workshop, associated with an open evaluation campaign on Spoken Language Translation, where both scientific papers and system descriptions are presented. Since 2004, the annual workshop has been held six times in Asia, five times in America, and three times in Europe. This year, the 15th International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation is hosted Europe, in awesome Bruges, Belgium from 29th to 30th October 2018. The reason was to co-locate IWSLT with other two important and related conferences: the Conference on Machine Translation (WMT) and the Conference on Empirical Methods for Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), both taking place in Brussels, after IWSLT. The IWSLT workshop includes presentations of scientific papers in dedicated technical sessions, either in oral or poster form. Scientific papers cover theoretical and practical issues in the field of machine translation, spoken language translation, automatic speech recognition, text-to-speech synthesis. This year, we received 26 submissions of scientific papers, which were carefully peer-reviewed by members of the program committee. Out of them, 12 were selected for publication based on their technical merit and relevance to the workshop. The proceedings of IWSLT are published on the workshop website. As in the past editions, IWSLT will assign a best student paper award for which this year we have selected two finalists that will give an oral presentation of their work. The workshop will also include the presentation and discussion of the outcomes of the 2018 IWSLT evaluation campaign, which this year focused on two tasks: low resource machine translation of TED Talks from Basque to English, and speech translation of lectures from English to German. The low resource translation task addressed a conventional bilingual text translation task, but given the difficulty of the proposed translation direction and the scarcity of available parallel data, we supported the development of deep learning models also leveraging parallel data from related languages. The speech translation task also introduced several novel aspects with respect to the past, which pushed participants to go beyond the usual pipeline approach of cascading automatic speech recognition and machine translation. First, this year we only evaluated end-to-end performance, so that every participant had to generate German translations based on the English audio. Second, for participants who wanted to focus on one component of the pipeline, we provided baseline components for the other parts. Third, we introduced a special evaluation condition to test end-to-end models, namely deep learning models directly mapping source language speech into target language text. For this condition, we provided an aligned TED corpus of English audio and German texts. For each proposed task, monolingual and bilingual language resources, as needed, were provided to participants in order to train their systems. Another novelty we introduced this year was to extend the evaluation period from one week to one month, so that participants could better plan their effort. Blind test sets were released at the begin of July, and all translation outputs produced by the participants were evaluated using several automatic translation quality metrics. Finally, each participant was requested to submit a paper describing his system and the utilized resources. System papers went through a peer-review process only aiming at improving their overall quality. The efforts of the organizers were definitely rewarded. The IWSLT evaluation campaign attracted this year 15 research teams, 8 taking part to the low-resource translation task, and 9 to the speech translation task. The presentations of the corresponding 15 system description papers will be as usual preceded by an overview talk of the evaluation campaign given by one of the organizers. Before opening the workshop a few words of acknowledgment. I would like to express my gratitude to the evaluation committee, Jan Niehues, Mauro Cettolo, Sebastian St?ker, Luisa Bentivogli, and Roldano Cattoni for preparing such a great playground for the research community. To the program chair Marco Turchi and all the program committee members for arranging an excellent workshop program. To Margit R?dder, for taking care of the website and all the local and financial arrangements. Finally, I would like to thank our generous sponsors for supporting IWSLT. Our gold sponsors Amazon Web Services and AppTek, and, our silver sponsor M*Modal. This year sponsors will have the opportunity to give a short corporate presentation at our workshop, which I'm sure will enrich IWSLT with an industry perspective on spoken language translation and provide additional networking opportunities in our community. I wish all the participants a fruitful and engaging IWSLT workshop! Welcome to Bruges!  Marcello Federico Workshop Chair IWSLT 2018   			 Proceedings of the 15 th International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation Bruges, Belgium, October 29-30, 2018
