title


abstract
Many Asian countries are rapidly growing these days and the importance of communicating and exchanging the information with these countries has intensified. To satisfy the demand for communication among these countries, machine translation technology is essential. Machine translation technology has rapidly evolved recently and it is seeing practical use especially between European languages. However, the translation quality of Asian languages is not that high compared to that of European languages, and machine translation technology for these languages has not reached a stage of proliferation yet. This is not only due to the lack of the language resources for Asian languages but also due to the lack of techniques to correctly transfer the meaning of sentences from/to Asian languages. Consequently, a place for gathering and sharing the resources and knowledge about Asian language translation is necessary to enhance machine translation research for Asian languages. The Workshop on Machine Translation (WMT), the world's largest machine translation workshop, mainly targets on European languages and does not include Asian languages. The International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT) has spoken language translation tasks for some Asian languages using TED talk data, but these is no task for written language. The Workshop on Asian Translation (WAT) is an open machine translation evaluation campaign focusing on Asian languages. WAT gathers and shares the resources and knowledge of Asian language translation to understand the problems to be solved for the practical use of machine translation technologies among all Asian countries. WAT is unique in that it is an "open innovation platform": the test data is fixed and open, so participants can repeat evaluations on the same data and confirm changes in translation accuracy over time. WAT has no deadline for the automatic translation quality evaluation (continuous evaluation), so participants can submit translation results at any time. Following the success of the previous WAT workshops (WAT2014 -WAT2018), WAT2019 will bring together machine translation researchers and users to try, evaluate, share and discuss brand-new ideas about machine translation. For the 6th WAT, we included 5 new translation subtasks. We had 25 teams who submitted their translation results, and about 400 submissions in total. In addition to the shared tasks, WAT2019 also feature scientific papers on topics related to the machine translation, especially for Asian languages. The program committee accepted 6 papers, which focus on on neural machine translation, and construction and evaluation of language resources. We are grateful to "SunFlare Co., Ltd.", "Japan Exchange Group, Inc. (JPX)", "Asia-Pacific Association for Machine Translation (AAMT)" and "Kawamura International" for partially sponsoring the workshop. We would like to thank all the authors who submitted papers. We express our deepest gratitude to the committee members for their timely reviews. We also thank the EMNLP-IJCNLP 2019 organizers for their help with administrative matters.

Invited talk: Multitask Learning from Multilingual Mutimodal Data 

 Desmond Elliott The University of Copenhagen Abstract I will talk about two perspectives on learning from multilingual multimodal data: as a language generation problem and as cross-modal retrieval problem. In the language generation problem of multimodal machine translation, I will discuss whether we should learn grounded representations by using the additional visual context as a conditioning input or as a variable that the model learns to predict, and highlight some recent arguments about whether models are actually sensitive to the visual context. As a multilingual image-sentence retrieval problem, I will discuss experiments that highlight situations in which it is useful to train with multilingual annotations, as opposed to monolingual annotations, and the challenges in learning from disjoint cross-lingual datasets. 

 Biography Desmond is an Assistant Professor at the University of Copenhagen. He received his PhD from the University of Edinburgh, and was a postdoctoral researcher at CWI Amsterdam, the University of Amsterdam, and the University of Edinburgh, funded by an Alain Bensoussan Career Development Fellowship and an Amazon Research Award. His research interests include multimodal and multlingual machine learning, which has appeared in papers ACL, CoNLL, EMNLP and NAACL. He was involved in the creation the Multi30K and How2 multilingual multimodal datasets and has developed a variety of models that learn from these types of data. He co-organised the How 2 Challenge Workshop at ICML 2019, the Multimodal Machine Translation Shared Task from 2016-2018, and the 2018 Frederick Jelinek Memorial Workshop on Grounded Sequence-to-Sequence Learning. 

 Table of Contents
