title
NICT's Machine Translation Systems for the WMT19 Similar Language Translation Task

abstract
This paper presents the NICT's participation in the WMT19 shared Similar Language Translation Task. We participated in the Spanish-Portuguese task. For both translation directions, we prepared state-of-the-art statistical (SMT) and neural (NMT) machine translation systems. Our NMT systems with the Transformer architecture were trained on the provided parallel data enlarged with a large quantity of back-translated monolingual data. Our primary submission to the task is the result of a simple combination of our SMT and NMT systems. According to BLEU, our systems were ranked second and third respectively for the Portuguese-to-Spanish and Spanish-to-Portuguese translation directions. For contrastive experiments, we also submitted outputs generated with an unsupervised SMT system.

Introduction This paper describes the machine translation (MT) systems built for the participation of the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT) in the WMT19 shared Similar Language Translation Task. We participated in Spanish-Portuguese (es-pt) in both translation directions. We chose this language pairs to explore the potential of unsupervised MT for very close languages with large monolingual data, and to compare it with supervised MT systems trained on large bilingual data. We participated under the team name "NICT." All our systems were constrained, i.e., we used only the parallel and monolingual data provided by the organizers to train and tune the MT systems. For both translation directions, we trained supervised neural MT (NMT) and statistical MT (SMT) systems, and combined them through n-best list reranking using different informative features as proposed by  Marie and Fujita (2018a) . This simple combination method, in conjunction with the exploitation of large back-translated monolingual data  (Sennrich et al., 2016a) , performed among the best MT systems in this task. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the data preprocessing. Section 3 describes the details of our NMT and SMT systems, and also our unsupervised SMT systems. Then, the combination of NMT and SMT is described in Section 4. Empirical results produced with our systems are presented in Section 5, and Section 6 concludes this paper. 

 Data Preprocessing 

 Data As parallel data to train our systems, we used all the provided data. As monolingual data, we used the provided "News Crawl" corpora that are sufficiently large and in-domain to train our unsupervised systems and be used for generating useful pseudo-parallel data through back-translation. To tune/validate our systems, we used the provided development data. 

 Tokenization, Truecasing, and Cleaning We used the tokenizer and truecaser of Moses  (Koehn et al., 2007) . The truecaser was trained on one million tokenized lines extracted randomly from the monolingual data. Truecasing was then performed on all the tokenized data. For cleaning, we only applied the Moses script clean-corpus-n.perl to remove lines in the parallel data containing more than 80 tokens and replaced characters forbidden by Moses. Note that we did not perform any punctuation normalization.  

 MT Systems 

 NMT For our NMT systems, we adopt the Transformer architecture  (Vaswani et al., 2017) . We chose Marian (Junczys-Dowmunt et al., 2018) 1 to train our NMT systems since it supports state-of-the-art features and is one of the fastest NMT frameworks publicly available. In order to limit the size of the vocabulary of the NMT models, we segmented tokens in the parallel data into sub-word units via byte pair encoding (BPE)  (Sennrich et al., 2016b ) using 30k operations. BPE segmentations were jointly learned on the training parallel data for the source and target languages. All our NMT systems were consistently trained on 4 GPUs, 2 with the parameters for Marian listed in Table  2 . To improve translation quality, we added 5M synthetic sentence pairs, obtained through back-translating  (Sennrich et al., 2016a)  the first 5M sentences from the monolingual corpora, to the original parallel data for training. We performed NMT decoding with an ensemble of a total of four models according to the best BLEU  (Papineni et al., 2002)  scores on the development data produced by four independent training runs using the same training parameters. 

 SMT We trained SMT systems using Moses. 3 Word alignments and phrase tables were obtained from the tokenized parallel data using mgiza. Source-to-target and target-to-source word alignments were symmetrized with the grow-diag-final-and heuristic. We also trained MSLR (monotone, swap, discontinuousleft, discontinuous-right) lexicalized reordering model. We trained one 4-gram language models on the entire monolingual data concatenated to the target side of the parallel data using LMPLZ 1 https://marian-nmt.github.io/, version 1.6.0 2 NVIDIA? Tesla? P100 16Gb. 3 https://github.com/moses-smt/ mosesdecoder/ --type transformer --max-length 80 --mini-batch-fit --valid-freq 5000 --save-freq 5000 --workspace 8000 --disp-freq 500 --beam-size 12 --normalize 1 --valid-mini-batch 16 --overwrite --early-stopping 5 --cost-type ce-mean-words --valid-metrics ce-mean-words translation --keep-best --enc-depth 6 --dec-depth 6 --transformer-dropout 0.1 --learn-rate 0.0003 --dropout-src 0.1 --dropout-trg 0.1 --lr-warmup 16000 --lr-decay-inv-sqrt 16000 --lr-report --label-smoothing 0.1 --devices 0 1 2 3 --dim-vocabs 30000 30000 --optimizer-params 0.9 0.98 1e-09 --clip-norm 5 --sync-sgd --tied-embeddings --exponential-smoothing   (Heafield et al., 2013) . Our systems used the default distortion limit of 6. We tuned the SMT model weights with KB-MIRA  (Cherry and Foster, 2012)  and selected the weights giving the best BLEU score on the development data after 15 iterations. 

 Unsupervised SMT We also built an SMT system, without any supervision, i.e., using only but all the provided monolingual data for training. We chose unsupervised SMT (USMT) over unsupervised NMT (UNMT) since previous work  (Artetxe et al., 2018b)  has shown that USMT slightly outperforms UNMT and that we expect USMT to work well for this language pair that involves only very few word reorderings. We built USMT systems using a framework similar to the one proposed in  Marie and Fujita (2018b) . The first step of USMT is the induction of a phrase table from the monolingual corpora. We first collected phrases of up to six tokens from the monolingual News Crawl corpora using word2phrase.  4  As phrases, we also considered all the token types in the corpora. Then, we selected the 300k most frequent phrases in the monolingual corpora to be used for inducing a phrase table. All possible phrase pairs are scored, as in  Marie and Fujita (2018b) , using bilingual word embeddings, and the 300 target phrases with the highest scores were kept in the phrase table for each source phrase. In total, the induced phrase table contains 90M (300k?300) phrase pairs. For this induction, bilingual word embeddings of 512 dimensions were obtained using word embeddings trained with fastText 5 and aligned in the same space using unsupervised Vecmap et al., 2018a). For each one of these phrase pairs a total of four scores, to be used as features in the phrase table were computed to mimic phrase-based SMT: forward and backward phrase and lexical translation probabilities. Finally, the phrase table was plugged into a Moses system that was tuned on the development data using KB-MIRA. We performed four refinement steps to improve the system using at each step 3M synthetic parallel sentences generated, from sentences randomly sampled from the monolingual data, by the forward and backward translation systems, instead of using only either forward  (Marie and Fujita, 2018b)  or backward translations  (Artetxe et al., 2018b) . We report on the performance of the systems obtained after the fourth refinement step. 

 Combination of NMT and SMT Our primary submission for WMT19 is the result of a simple combination of NMT and SMT. Indeed, as demonstrated by  Marie and Fujita (2018a) , and despite the simplicity of the method used, combining NMT and SMT makes MT more robust and can significantly improve translation quality, even when SMT greatly underperforms NMT. Moreover, due to the very few word reorderings to perform and the morphological similarity between Spanish and Portuguese, we can expect SMT to perform closely to NMT while remaining different and complementary. Following  Marie and Fujita (2018a) , our combination of NMT and SMT works as follows. 

 Generation of n-best Lists We first produced the six 100-best lists of translation hypotheses generated by four NMT leftto-right models individually, by their ensemble, and by one right-to-left model. Unlike Moses, Marian must use a beam of size k to produce a kbest list during decoding. However, using a larger beam size during decoding for NMT may worsen translation quality  (Koehn and Knowles, 2017) . Consequently, we also produced with Marian the 12-best lists and merged them with Marian's 100-best lists to obtain lists containing up to 112 hypotheses, 6 or up to 672 hypotheses after merging all the lists produced by NMT. In this way, we make sure that we still have hypotheses of good quality in the lists despite using a larger beam size. We also generated 100-best translation hypotheses with SMT. 7 Finally, we merged the lists produced by Marian and Moses. 

 Reranking Framework and Features We rescored all the hypotheses in the resulting lists with a reranking framework using SMT and NMT features to better model the fluency and the adequacy of each hypothesis. This method can find a better hypothesis in these merged n-best lists than the one-best hypothesis originated by either Moses or Marian. We chose KB-MIRA as a rescoring framework and used a subset of the features proposed in  Marie and Fujita (2018a) . As listed in Table  3 , it includes the scores given by the four left-to-right NMT models used to perform ensemble decoding (see Section 3.1). We also used as features the scores given by the right-toleft NMT model that we trained for each translation direction with the same parameters as left-toright NMT models. The right-to-left NMT model achieving the best BLEU score on the development data, was selected, giving us another feature for each translation direction. All the following features we used are described in details by  Marie and Fujita (2018a) . We computed sentence-level translation probabilities using the lexical translation probabilities learned by mgiza during the training of our SMT systems. The language model trained for SMT was also used to score the transla-Feature Description L2R (4) Scores given by each of the 4 left-to-right Marian models R2L (1) Scores given by 1 right-to-left Marian models LEX (4) Sentence-level translation probabilities, for both translation directions LM (1) Scores given by the language model used by our SMT system LEN (2) Difference between the length of the source sentence and the length of the translation hypothesis, and its absolute value tion hypotheses. To account for hypotheses length, we added the difference, and its absolute value, between the number of tokens in the translation hypothesis and the source sentence. The reranker was trained on n-best lists produced by decoding the same development data that we used to validate NMT system's training and to tune SMT's model weights. 

 Results The results for both translation directions are presented in Table  4 . As expected, we obtained very high BLEU scores that point out that the proximity between the two languages has a key role in the success of MT. Also, due to the many characteristics shared by both languages, especially regarding word orderings and morphology, we can observe that SMT performed as good as NMT. Combining SMT and NMT through reranking derived our best results with, for instance, a substantial improvement of 1.6 BLEU points for es?pt on the development data. USMT also achieved very high BLEU scores: only 5.4 BLEU points below our primary model for es?pt on the test data. The USMT performance points out that training MT systems with large bilingual data may be unnecessary for very close languages, such as Spanish and Portuguese. 

 Conclusion We participated in the Spanish-Portuguese translation task and compared a strong supervised MT system with USMT. While our supervised MT system significantly outperformed USMT, we showed that USMT for close languages has the potential to be a reasonable alternative since it can deliver a good translation quality without requiring manual creation of large parallel data for training. Table 1 1 presents the statistics of the par- allel and monolingual data, respectively, after pre- processing. 
