title
Insertion and Deletion Models for Statistical Machine Translation

abstract
We investigate insertion and deletion models for hierarchical phrase-based statistical machine translation. Insertion and deletion models are designed as a means to avoid the omission of content words in the hypotheses. In our case, they are implemented as phrase-level feature functions which count the number of inserted or deleted words. An English word is considered inserted or deleted based on lexical probabilities with the words on the foreign language side of the phrase. Related techniques have been employed before by  Och et al. (2003)  in an n-best reranking framework and by  Mauser et al. (2006) and Zens (2008)  in a standard phrase-based translation system. We propose novel thresholding methods in this work and study insertion and deletion features which are based on two different types of lexicon models. We give an extensive experimental evaluation of all these variants on the NIST Chinese?English translation task.

Insertion and Deletion Models In hierarchical phrase-based translation  (Chiang, 2005) , we deal with rules X ? ?, ?, ? where ?, ? is a bilingual phrase pair that may contain symbols from a non-terminal set, i.e. ? ? (N ? V F ) + and ? ? (N ?V E ) + , where V F and V E are the source and target vocabulary, respectively, and N is a non-terminal set which is shared by source and target. The left-hand side of the rule is a non-terminal symbol X ? N , and the ? relation denotes a oneto-one correspondence between the non-terminals in ? and in ?. Let J ? denote the number of terminal symbols in ? and I ? the number of terminal symbols in ?. Indexing ? with j, i.e. the symbol ? j , 1 ? j ? J ? , denotes the j-th terminal symbol on the source side of the phrase pair ?, ? , and analogous with ? i , 1 ? i ? I ? , on the target side. With these notational conventions, we now define our insertion and deletion models, each in both source-to-target and target-to-source direction. We give phrase-level scoring functions for the four features. In our implementation, the feature values are precomputed and written to the phrase table. The features are then incorporated directly into the loglinear model combination of the decoder. Our insertion model in source-to-target direction t s2tIns (?) counts the number of inserted words on the target side ? of a hierarchical rule with respect to the source side ? of the rule: t s2tIns (?, ?) = I ? i=1 J? j=1 p(? i |? j ) < ? ? j (1) Here, [?] denotes a true or false statement: The result is 1 if the condition is true and 0 if the condition is false. The model considers an occurrence of a target word e an insertion iff no source word f exists within the phrase where the lexical translation probability p(e|f ) is greater than a corresponding threshold ? f . We employ lexical translation probabilities from two different types of lexicon models, a model which is extracted from word-aligned training data and-given the word alignment matrix-relies on pure relative frequencies, and the IBM model 1 lexicon (cf. Section 2). For ? f , previous authors have used a fixed heuristic value which was equal for all f ? V f . In Section 3, we describe how such a global threshold can be computed and set in a reasonable way based on the characteristics of the model. We also propose several novel thresholding techniques with distinct thresholds ? f for each source word f . In an analogous manner to the source-to-target direction, the insertion model in target-to-source direction t t2sIns (?) counts the number of inserted words on the source side ? of a hierarchical rule with respect to the target side ? of the rule: t t2sIns (?, ?) = J? j=1 I ? i=1 [p(? j |? i ) < ? ? i ] (2) Target-to-source lexical translation probabilities p(f |e) are thresholded with values ? e which may be distinct for each target word e. The model considers an occurrence of a source word f an insertion iff no target word e exists within the phrase with p(f |e) greater than or equal to ? e . Our deletion model, compared to the insertion model, interchanges the connection of the direction of the lexical probabilities and the order of source and target in the sum and product of the term. The source-to-target deletion model thus differs from the target-to-source insertion model in that it employs a source-to-target word-based lexicon model. The deletion model in source-to-target direction t s2tDel (?) counts the number of deleted words on the source side ? of a hierarchical rule with respect to the target side ? of the rule: t s2tDel (?, ?) = J? j=1 I ? i=1 p(? i |? j ) < ? ? j (3) It considers an occurrence of a source word f a deletion iff no target word e exists within the phrase with p(e|f ) greater than or equal to ? f . The target-to-source deletion model t t2sDel (?) correspondingly considers an occurrence of a target word e a deletion iff no source word f exists within the phrase with p(f |e) greater than or equal to ? e : t t2sDel (?, ?) = I ? i=1 J? j=1 [p(? j |? i ) < ? ? i ] (4) 

 Lexicon Models We restrict ourselves to the description of the source-to-target direction of the models. 

 Word Lexicon from Word-Aligned Data Given a word-aligned parallel training corpus, we are able to estimate single-word based translation probabilities p RF (e|f ) by relative frequency  (Koehn et al., 2003) . With N (e, f ) denoting counts of aligned cooccurrences of target word e and source word f , we can compute p RF (e|f ) = N (e, f ) e N (e , f ) . (5) If an occurrence of e has multiple aligned source words, each of the alignment links contributes with a fractional count. We denote this model as relative frequency (RF) word lexicon. 

 IBM Model 1 The IBM model 1 lexicon (IBM-1) is the first and most basic one in a sequence of probabilistic generative models  (Brown et al., 1993) . For IBM-1, several simplifying assumptions are made, so that the probability of a target sentence e I 1 given a source sentence f J 0 (with f 0 = NULL) can be modeled as P r(e I 1 |f J 1 ) = 1 (J + 1) I I i=1 J j=0 p ibm1 (e i |f j ) . (6) The parameters of IBM-1 are estimated iteratively by means of the Expectation-Maximization algorithm with maximum likelihood as training criterion. 

 Thresholding Methods We introduce thresholding methods for insertion and deletion models which set thresholds based on the characteristics of the lexicon model that is applied. For all the following thresholding methods, we disregard entries in the lexicon model with probabilities that are below a fixed floor value of 10 ?6 . Again, we restrict ourselves to the description of the source-totarget direction. individual ? f is a distinct value for each f , computed as the arithmetic average of all entries p(e|f ) of any e with the given f in the lexicon model. global The same value ? f = ? is used for all f . We compute this global threshold by averaging over the individual thresholds. 1 histogram n ? f is a distinct value for each f . ? f is set to the value of the n + 1-th largest probability p(e|f ) of any e with the given f . 1 Concrete values from our experiments are: 0.395847 for the source-to-target RF lexicon, 0.48127 for the target-to-source RF lexicon. 0.0512856 for the source-to-target IBM-1, and 0.0453709 for the target-to-source IBM-1.  Mauser et al. (2006)  mention that they chose their heuristic thresholds for use with IBM-1 between 10 ?1 and 10 ?4 . all All entries with probabilities larger than the floor value are not thresholded. This variant may be considered as histogram ?. We only apply it with RF lexicons. median ? f is a median-based distinct value for each f , i.e. it is set to the value that separates the higher half of the entries from the lower half of the entries p(e|f ) for the given f . 

 Experimental Evaluation We present empirical results obtained with the different insertion and deletion model variants on the Chinese?English 2008 NIST task. 2 

 Experimental Setup To set up our systems, we employ the open source statistical machine translation toolkit Jane  (Vilar et al., 2010; Vilar et al., 2012) , which is freely available for non-commercial use. Jane provides efficient C++ implementations for hierarchical phrase extraction, optimization of log-linear feature weights, and parsing-based decoding algorithms. In our experiments, we use the cube pruning algorithm  (Huang and Chiang, 2007)  to carry out the search. We work with a parallel training corpus of 3.0M Chinese-English sentence pairs (77.5M Chinese / 81.0M English running words). The counts for the RF lexicon models are computed from a symmetrized word alignment  (Och and Ney, 2003) , the IBM-1 models are produced with GIZA++. When extracting phrases, we apply several restrictions, in particular a maximum length of 10 on source and target side for lexical phrases, a length limit of five (including non-terminal symbols) for hierarchical phrases, and no more than two gaps per phrase. The models integrated into the baseline are: phrase translation probabilities and RF lexical translation probabilities on phrase level, each for both translation directions, length penalties on word and phrase level, binary features marking hierarchical phrases, glue rule, and rules with non-terminals at the boundaries, source-to-target and target-to-source phrase length ratios, four binary features marking phrases that have been seen more than one, two, three or five times, respectively, and an n-gram language model. The language model is a 4-gram with modified Kneser-Ney smoothing which was trained with the SRILM toolkit  (Stolcke, 2002)  on a large collection of English data including the target side of the parallel corpus and the LDC Gigaword v3. Model weights are optimized against BLEU  (Papineni et al., 2002)  with standard Minimum Error Rate Training  (Och, 2003) , performance is measured with BLEU and TER  (Snover et al., 2006) . We employ MT06 as development set, MT08 is used as unseen test set. The empirical evaluation of all our setups is presented in Table  1 .  

 Experimental Results With the best model variant, we obtain a significant improvement (90% confidence) of +1.0 points BLEU over the baseline on MT08. A consistent trend towards one of the variants cannot be observed. The results on the test set with RF lexicons or IBM-1, insertion or deletion models, and (in most of the cases) with all of the thresholding methods are roughly at the same level. For comparison we also give a result with an unaligned word count model (+0.4 BLEU). Huck et al. (  2011 ) recently reported substantial improvements over typical hierarchical baseline setups by just including phrase-level IBM-1 scores. When we add the IBM-1 models directly, our baseline is outperformed by +1.7 BLEU. We tried to get improvements with insertion and deletion models over this setup again, but the positive effect was largely diminished. In one of our strongest setups, which includes discriminative word lexicon models (DWL), triplet lexicon models and a discriminative reordering model (discrim. RO) , insertion models still yield a minimal gain, though. 

 Conclusion Our results with insertion and deletion models for Chinese?English hierarchical machine translation are twofold. On the one hand, we achieved significant improvements over a standard hierarchical baseline. We were also able to report a slight gain by adding the models to a very strong setup with discriminative word lexicons, triplet lexicon models and a discriminative reordering model. On the other hand, the positive impact of the models was mainly noticeable when we exclusively applied lexical smoothing with word lexicons which are simply extracted from word-aligned training data, which is however the standard technique in most state-ofthe-art systems. If we included phrase-level lexical scores with IBM model 1 as well, the systems barely benefited from our insertion and deletion models. Compared to an unaligned word count model, insertion and deletion models perform well. 2 http://www.itl.nist.gov/iad/mig/tests/ mt/2008/
