title
Referential Translation Machines for Predicting Translation Quality and Related Statistics

abstract
We use referential translation machines (RTMs) for predicting translation performance. RTMs pioneer a language independent approach to all similarity tasks and remove the need to access any task or domain specific information or resource. We improve our RTM models with the ParFDA instance selection model , with additional features for predicting the translation performance, and with improved learning models. We develop RTM models for each WMT15 QET (QET15) subtask and obtain improvements over QET14 results. RTMs achieve top performance in QET15 ranking 1st in document-and sentence-level prediction tasks and 2nd in word-level prediction task.

Referential Translation Machine (RTM) Referential translation machines are a computational model effectively judging monolingual and bilingual similarity while identifying translation acts between any two data sets with respect to interpretants. RTMs achieve top performance in automatic, accurate, and language independent prediction of machine translation performance and reduce our dependence on any task dependent resource. Prediction of translation performance can help in estimating the effort required for correcting the translations during post-editing by human translators. We improve our RTM models  (Bic ?ici and Way, 2014 ): ? by using improved ParFDA instance selection model  allowing better language models (LM) in which similarity judgments are made to be built with improved optimization and selection of the LM data, ? by selecting TreeF features over source and translation data jointly instead of taking their intersection, ? with extended learning models including bayesian ridge regression  (Tan et al., 2015) , which did not obtain better performance than support vector regression in training results (Section 2.2). We present top results with Referential Translation Machines  (Bic ?ici, 2015; Bic ?ici and Way, 2014)  at quality estimation task (QET15) in WMT15  (Bojar et al., 2015) . RTMs pioneer a computational model for quality and semantic similarity judgments in monolingual and bilingual settings using retrieval of relevant training data  (Bic ?ici and Yuret, 2015)  as interpretants for reaching shared semantics. RTMs use Machine Translation Performance Prediction (MTPP) System  Bic ?ici, 2015) , which is a state-of-the-art performance predictor of translation even without using the translation by using only the source. We use ParFDA for selecting the interpretants  Bic ?ici and Yuret, 2015)  and build an MTPP model. MTPP derives indicators of the closeness of test sentences to the available training data, the difficulty of translating the sentence, and the presence of acts of translation for data transformation. We view that acts of translation are ubiquitously used during communication: Every act of communication is an act of translation  (Bliss, 2012) . Figure  1  depicts RTM. Our encouraging results in QET provides a greater understanding of the acts of translation we ubiquitously use and how they can be used to predict the performance of translation. RTMs are powerful enough to be applicable in different domains and tasks while achieving top performance. Table  1 : Number of sentences in different tasks. 

 RTM in the Quality Estimation Task We participate in all of the three subtasks of the quality estimation task (QET)  (Bojar et al., 2015) , which include English to Spanish (en-es), English to German (en-de), and German to English (deen) translation directions. There are three subtasks: sentence-level prediction (Task 1), wordlevel prediction (Task 2), and document-level prediction (Task 3). Task 1 is about predicting HTER (human-targeted translation edit rate)  (Snover et al., 2006)  scores of sentence translations, Task 2 is about binary classification of word-level quality, and Task 3 is about predicting METEOR  (Lavie and Agarwal, 2007)  scores of document translations. Instance selection for the training set and the language model (LM) corpus is handled by ParFDA , whose parameters are optimized for each translation task. LM are trained using SRILM  (Stolcke, 2002) . We tokenize and truecase all of the corpora using code released with Moses  (Koehn et al., 2007)  1 . Table 1 lists the number of sentences in the training and test sets for each task. 1 mosesdecoder/scripts/ 

 RTM Prediction Models and Optimization We present results using support vector regression (SVR) with RBF (radial basis functions) kernel  (Smola and Sch?lkopf, 2004)  for sentence and document translation prediction tasks and Global Linear Models (GLM)  (Collins, 2002)  with dynamic learning (GLMd)  (Bic ?ici, 2013; Bic ?ici and Way, 2014)  for word-level translation performance prediction. We also use these learning models after a feature subset selection (FS) with recursive feature elimination (RFE)  (Guyon et al., 2002)  or a dimensionality reduction and mapping step using partial least squares (PLS)  (Specia et al., 2009) , or PLS after FS (FS+PLS). GLM relies on Viterbi decoding, perceptron learning, and flexible feature definitions. GLMd extends the GLM framework by parallel perceptron training  (McDonald et al., 2010)  and dynamic learning with adaptive weight updates in the perceptron learning algorithm: w = w + ? (?(x i , y i ) ? ?(x i , ?)) , (1) where ? returns a global representation for instance i and the weights are updated by ?, which dynamically decays the amount of the change during weight updates at later stages and prevents large fluctuations with updates. The learning rate updates the weight values with weights in the range [a, b] using the following function taking error rate as the input: f (x) = (log a b ? 1)x 2 + 1 (2) Learning rate curve for a = 0.5 and b = 1.0 is provided in Figure  2 : 

 Training Results We use mean absolute error (MAE), relative absolute error (RAE), root mean squared error (RMSE), and correlation (r) as well as relative MAE (MAER) and relative RAE (MRAER) to evaluate  (Bic ?ici, 2015; Bic ?ici, 2013) . MAER is mean absolute error relative to the magnitude of the target and MRAER is mean absolute error relative to the absolute error of a predictor always predicting the target mean assuming that target mean is known  (Bic ?ici, 2015)   2012) calculates the average quality difference between the top n?1 quartiles and the overall quality for the test set. Table  2  presents the training results for Task 1 and Task 3. Table  3  presents Task 2 training results. We refer to GLMd parallelized over 4 splits as GLMd s4 and GLMd with 5 splits as GLMd s5. 

 Test Results Task 1: Predicting the HTER for Sentence Translations The results on the test set are given in Table  4 . Rank lists the overall ranking in the task out of about 9 submissions. We obtain the rankings by sorting according to the predicted scores and randomly assigning ranks in case of ties. RTMs with FS followed by PLS and learning with SVR is able to achieve the top rank in this task. Task 2: Prediction of Word-level Translation Quality Task 2 is about binary classification of word-level quality. We develop individual RTM models for each subtask and use GLMd model  (Bic ?ici, 2013; Bic ?ici and Way, 2014) , for predicting the quality at the word-level. The results on the test set are in Table  5  where the ranks are out of about 17 submissions. RTMs with GLMd becomes the second best system this task. Task 3: Predicting METEOR of Document Translations Task 3 is about predicting ME-TEOR  (Lavie and Agarwal, 2007)  and their ranking. The results on the test set are given in Table  4  where the ranks are out of about 6 submissions using wF 1 . RTMs achieve top rankings in this task.  

 RTMs Across Tasks and Years We compare the difficulty of tasks according to MRAER levels achieved. In Table  6 , we list the RTM test results for tasks and subtasks that predict HTER or METEOR from QET15, QET14  (Bic ?ici and Way, 2014) , and QET13  (Bic ?ici, 2013) . The best results when predicting HTER are obtained this year. 

 Conclusion Referential translation machines achieve top performance in automatic, accurate, and language independent prediction of document-, sentence-, and word-level statistical machine translation (SMT) performance. RTMs remove the need to access any SMT system specific information or prior knowledge of the training data or models used when generating the translations. RTMs achieve top performance when predicting translation performance.   (Bic ?ici and Way, 2014)  and QET13  (Bic ?ici, 2013) . Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1: RTM depiction. 
