title
A Description of Tunable Machine Translation Evaluation Systems in WMT13 Metrics Task

abstract
This paper is to describe our machine translation evaluation systems used for participation in the WMT13 shared Metrics Task. In the Metrics task, we submitted two automatic MT evaluation systems nLEPOR_baseline and LEPOR_v3.1. nLEPOR_baseline is an n-gram based language independent MT evaluation metric employing the factors of modified sentence length penalty, position difference penalty, n-gram precision and n-gram recall. nLEPOR_baseline measures the similarity of the system output translations and the reference translations only on word sequences. LEPOR_v3.1 is a new version of LEPOR metric using the mathematical harmonic mean to group the factors and employing some linguistic features, such as the part-of-speech information. The evaluation results of WMT13 show LEPOR_v3.1 yields the highest averagescore 0.86 with human judgments at systemlevel using Pearson correlation criterion on English-to-other (FR, DE, ES, CS, RU) language pairs.

Introduction Machine translation has a long history since the 1950s  (Weaver, 1955)  and gains a fast development in the recent years because of the higher level of computer technology. For instances,  Och (2003)  presents Minimum Error Rate Training (MERT) method for log-linear statistical machine translation models to achieve better translation quality;  Menezes et al. (2006)  introduce a syntactically informed phrasal SMT system for English-to-Spanish translation using a phrase translation model, which is based on global reordering and the dependency tree;  Su et al. (2009)  use the Thematic Role Templates model to improve the translation;  Costa-juss? et al. (2012)  develop the phrase-based SMT system for Chinese-Spanish translation using a pivot language. With the rapid development of Machine Translation (MT), the evaluation of MT has become a challenge in front of researchers. However, the MT evaluation is not an easy task due to the fact of the diversity of the languages, especially for the evaluation between distant languages (English, Russia, Japanese, etc.). 

 Related works The earliest human assessment methods for machine translation include the intelligibility and fidelity used around 1960s  (Carroll, 1966) , and the adequacy (similar as fidelity), fluency and comprehension (improved intelligibility)  (White et al., 1994) . Because of the expensive cost of manual evaluations, the automatic evaluation metrics and systems appear recently. The early automatic evaluation metrics include the word error rate WER  (Su et al., 1992)  and position independent word error rate PER  (Tillmann et al., 1997)  that are based on the Levenshtein distance. Several promotions for the MT and MT evaluation literatures include the ACL's annual workshop on statistical machine translation WMT  (Koehn and Monz, 2006; Callison-Burch et al., 2012) , NIST open machine translation (OpenMT) Evaluation series  (Li, 2005)  and the international workshop of spoken language translation IWSLT, which is also organized annually from 2004  (Eck and Hori, 2005; Paul, 2008 Paul, , 2009 Paul, et al., 2010; Federico et al., 2011) . BLEU  (Papineni et al., 2002)  is one of the commonly used evaluation metrics that is designed to calculate the document level precisions. NIST  (Doddington, 2002)  metric is proposed based on BLEU but with the information weights added to the n-gram approaches. TER  (Snover et al., 2006)  is another well-known MT evaluation metric that is designed to calculate the amount of work needed to correct the hypothesis translation according to the reference translations. TER includes the edit categories such as insertion, deletion, substitution of single words and the shifts of word chunks. Other related works include the METEOR  (Banerjee and Lavie, 2005)  that uses semantic matching (word stem, synonym, and paraphrase), and  (Wong and Kit, 2008) ,  (Popovic, 2012) , and  (Chen et al., 2012)  that introduces the word order factors, etc. The traditional evaluation metrics tend to perform well on the language pairs with English as the target language. This paper will introduce the evaluation models that can also perform well on the language pairs that with English as source language. 

 Description of Systems 

 Sub Factors Firstly, we introduce the sub factor of modified length penalty inspired by BLEU metric. 

 { (1) In the formula, means sentence length penalty that is designed for both the shorter or longer translated sentence (hypothesis translation) as compared to the reference sentence. Parameters and represent the length of candidate sentence and reference sentence respectively. Secondly, let's see the factors of n-gram precision and n-gram recall. (2) (3) The variable represents the number of matched n-gram chunks between hypothesis sentence and reference sentence. The ngram precision and n-gram recall are firstly cal-culated on sentence-level instead of corpus-level that is used in BLEU ( ). Then we define the weighted n-gram harmonic mean of precision and recall (WNHPR). (? ( (4) Thirdly, it is the n-gram based position difference penalty (NPosPenal). This factor is designed to achieve the penalty for the different order of successfully matched words in reference sentence and hypothesis sentence. The alignment direction is from the hypothesis sentence to the reference sentence. It employs the -gram method into the matching period, which means that the potential matched word will be assigned higher priority if it also has nearby matching. The nearest matching will be accepted as a backup choice if there are both nearby matching or there is no other matched word around the potential pairs. (  5 ) ? (6) (7) The variable means the length of the hypothesis sentence; the variables and represent the position number of matched words in hypothesis sentence and reference sentence respectively. 

 Linguistic Features The linguistic features could be easily employed into our evaluation models. In the submitted experiment results of WMT Metrics Task, we used the part of speech information of the words in question. In grammar, a part of speech, which is also called a word class, a lexical class, or a lexical category, is a linguistic category of lexical items. It is generally defined by the syntactic or morphological behavior of the lexical item in question. The POS information utilized in our metric LEPOR_v3.1, an enhanced version of LEPOR  (Han et al., 2012) , is extracted using the Berkeley parser  (Petrov et al., 2006)  for English, German, and French languages, using COM-POST Czech morphology tagger  (Collins, 2002)  for Czech language, and using TreeTagger  (Schmid, 1994)  for Spanish and Russian languages respectively.  

 Ratio other-to-English English-to-other CZ-EN DE-EN ES-EN FR-EN EN-CZ EN-DE EN-ES EN-FR 

 The nLEPOR_baseline System The nLEPOR_baseline system utilizes the simple product value of the factors: modified length penalty, n-gram position difference penalty, and weighted n-gram harmonic mean of precision and recall. (8 ) The system level score is the arithmetical mean of the sentence level evaluation scores. In the experiments of Metrics Task using the nLEPOR_baseline system, we assign N=1 in the factor WNHPR, i.e. weighted unigram harmonic mean of precision and recall. 

 The LEPOR_v3.1 System The system of LEPOR_v3.1 (also called as hLEPOR) combines the sub factors using weighted mathematical harmonic mean instead of the simple product value. (9) Furthermore, this system takes into account the linguistic features, such as the POS of the words. Firstly, we calculate the hLEPOR score on surface words (the closeness of the hypothesis translation and the reference translation). Then, we calculate the hLEPOR score on the extracted POS sequences (the closeness of the corresponding POS tags between hypothesis sentence and reference sentence). The final score is the combination of the two sub-scores and . ( 

 Evaluation Method In the MT evaluation task, the Spearman rank correlation coefficient method is usually used by the authoritative ACL WMT to evaluate the correlation of different MT evaluation metrics. So we use the Spearman rank correlation coefficient to evaluate the performances of nLEPOR_baseline and LEPOR_v3.1 in system level correlation with human judgments. When there are no ties, is calculated using: ? ( ( 11 ) The variable is the difference value between the ranks for and is the number of systems. We also offer the Pearson correlation coefficient information as below. Given a sample of paired data (X, Y) as ( , , the Pearson correlation coefficient is: ? ( ( ? ( ? ( ) (12) where and specify the mean of discrete random variable X and Y respectively. Table  3 . System-level Pearson correlation scores on WMT13 English-to-other language pairs 5 Experiments 

 Training In the training stage, we used the officially released data of past WMT series. There is no Russian language in the past WMT shared tasks. So we trained our systems on the other eight language pairs including English to other (French, German, Spanish, Czech) and the inverse translation direction. In order to avoid the overfitting problem, we used the WMT11 corpora as training data to train the parameter weights in order to achieve a higher correlation with human judgments at system-level evaluations. For the nLEPOR_baseline system, the tuned values of and are 9 and 1 respectively for all language pairs except for ( , ) for CS-EN language pair. For the LEPOR_v3.1 system, the tuned values of weights are shown in Table  1 . The evaluation scores of the training results on WMT11 corpora are shown in Table  2 . The designed methods have shown promising correlation scores with human judgments at system lev-el, 0.87 and 0.77 respectively for nLEPOR_baseline and LEPOR_v3.1 of the mean score on eight language pairs. As compared to METEOR, BLEU and TER, we have achieved higher correlation scores with human judgments. 

 Testing In the WMT13 shared Metrics Task, we also submitted our system performances on Englishto-Russian and Russian-to-English language pairs. However, since the Russian language did not appear in the past WMT shared tasks, we assigned the default parameter weights to Russian language for the submitted two systems. The officially released results on WMT13 corpora are shown in Table  3 , Table  4 and Table 5   On the other hand, using the Spearman rank correlation coefficient, SIMPBLEU_RECALL yields the highest correlation score 0.85 with human judgments. Our metric LEPOR_v3.1 also yields the highest Spearman correlation score on English-to-Russian (0.85) language pair, which is similar with the result using Pearson correlation and shows its robust performance on this language pair. Table  5 . Segment-level Kendall's tau correlation scores on WMT13 English-to-other language pairs However, we find a problem in the Spearman rank correlation method. For instance, let two evaluation metrics MA and MB with their evaluation scores ? and ? respectively reflecting three MT systems ? . Before the calculation of correlation with human judgments, they will be converted into ? ? and ? ? with the same rank sequence using Spearman rank method; thus, the two evaluation systems will get the same correlation with human judgments whatever are the values of human judgments. But the two metrics reflect different results indeed: MA gives the outstanding score (0.95) to M 1 system and puts very low scores (0.50 and 0.45) on the other two systems M 2 and M 3 while MB thinks the three MT systems have similar performances (scores from 0.74 to 0.77). This information is lost using the Spearman rank correlation methodology. The segment-level performance of LEPOR_v3.1 is moderate with the average Kendall's tau correlation score 0.10 on five Englishto-other language pairs, which is due to the fact that we trained our metrics at system-level in this shared metrics task. Lastly, the officially released results on WMT13 other-to-English language pairs are shown in Table  6 , Table  7      METEOR yields the highest average correlation scores 0.95 and 0.94 respectively using Pearson and Spearman rank correlation methods on other-to-English language pairs. The average performance of nLEPOR_baseline is a little better than LEPOR_v3.1 on the five language pairs of other-to-English even though it is also moderate as compared to other metrics. However, using the Pearson correlation method, nLEPOR_baseline yields the average correlation score 0.87 which already wins the BLEU (0.86) and TER (0.80) as shown in Table  6  Once again, our metrics perform moderate at segment-level on other-to-English language pairs due to the fact that they are trained at systemlevel. We notice that some of the evaluation metrics do not submit the results on all the language pairs; however, their performance on submitted language pair is sometimes very good, such as the dfki_logregFSS-33 metric with a segmentlevel correlation score 0.27 on German-to-English language pair. 

 Conclusion This paper describes our participation in the WMT13 Metrics Task. We submitted two systems nLEPOR_baseline and LEPOR_v3.1. Both of the two systems are trained and tested using the officially released data. LEPOR_v3.1 yields the highest Pearson correlation average-score 0.86 with human judgments on five English-toother language pairs, and nLEPOR_baseline yields better performance than LEPOR_v3.1 on other-to-English language pairs. Furthermore, LEPOR_v3.1 shows robust system-level performance on English-to-Russian language pair, and nLEPOR_baseline shows best system-level performance on English-to-Czech language pair using Pearson correlation criterion. As compared to nLEPOR_baseline, the experiment results of LEPOR_v3.1 also show that the proper use of linguistic information can increase the performance of the evaluation systems.     Table 2 . 2 The performances of nLEPOR_baseline and LEPOR_v3.1 systems on WMT11 corpora HPR:LP:NPP(word) 7:2:1 3:2:1 7:2:1 3:2:1 7:2:1 1:3:7 3:2:1 3:2:1 HPR:LP:NPP(POS) NA 3:2:1 NA 3:2:1 7:2:1 7:2:1 NA 3:2:1 ( 1:9 9:1 1:9 9:1 9:1 9:1 9:1 9:1 ( NA 9:1 NA 9:1 9:1 9:1 NA 9:1 NA 1:9 NA 9:1 1:9 1:9 NA 9:1 Table 1. The tuned weight values in LEPOR_v3.1 system Correlation Score with Human Judgment System other-to-English English-to-other Mean CZ-EN DE-EN ES-EN FR-EN EN-CZ EN-DE EN-ES EN-FR score LEPOR_v3.1 0.93 0.86 0.88 0.92 0.83 0.82 0.85 0.83 0.87 nLEPOR_baseline 0.95 0.61 0.96 0.88 0.68 0.35 0.89 0.83 0.77 METEOR 0.91 0.71 0.88 0.93 0.65 0.30 0.74 0.85 0.75 BLEU 0.88 0.48 0.90 0.85 0.65 0.44 0.87 0.86 0.74 TER 0.83 0.33 0.89 0.77 0.50 0.12 0.81 0.84 0.64 
