title
Discriminative Feature-Tied Mixture Modeling for Statistical Machine Translation

abstract
In this paper we present a novel discriminative mixture model for statistical machine translation (SMT). We model the feature space with a log-linear combination of multiple mixture components. Each component contains a large set of features trained in a maximumentropy framework. All features within the same mixture component are tied and share the same mixture weights, where the mixture weights are trained discriminatively to maximize the translation performance. This approach aims at bridging the gap between the maximum-likelihood training and the discriminative training for SMT. It is shown that the feature space can be partitioned in a variety of ways, such as based on feature types, word alignments, or domains, for various applications. The proposed approach improves the translation performance significantly on a large-scale Arabic-to-English MT task.

Introduction Significant progress has been made in statistical machine translation (SMT) in recent years. Among all the proposed approaches, the phrasebased method  (Koehn et al., 2003)  has become the widely adopted one in SMT due to its capability of capturing local context information from adjacent words. There exists significant amount of work focused on the improvement of translation performance with better features. The feature set could be either small (at the order of 10), or large (up to millions). For example, the system described in  (Koehn et al., 2003)  is a widely known one using small number of features in a maximum-entropy (log-linear) model  (Och and Ney, 2002) . The features include phrase translation probabilities, lexical probabilities, number of phrases, and language model scores, etc. The feature weights are usually optimized with minimum error rate training (MERT) as in  (Och, 2003) . Besides the MERT-based feature weight optimization, there exist other alternative discriminative training methods for MT, such as in  (Tillmann and Zhang, 2006; Liang et al., 2006; Blunsom et al., 2008) . However, scalability is a challenge for these approaches, where all possible translations of each training example need to be searched, which is computationally expensive. In  (Chiang et al., 2009) , there are 11K syntactic features proposed for a hierarchical phrase-based system. The feature weights are trained with the Margin Infused Relaxed Algorithm (MIRA) efficiently on a forest of translations from a development set. Even though significant improvement has been obtained compared to the baseline that has small number of features, it is hard to apply the same approach to millions of features due to the data sparseness issue, since the development set is usually small. In  (Ittycheriah and Roukos, 2007) , a maximum entropy (ME) model is proposed, which utilizes millions of features. All the feature weights are trained with a maximum-likelihood (ML) approach on the full training corpus. It achieves significantly better performance than a normal phrase-based system. However, the estimation of feature weights has no direct connection with the final translation perfor-mance. In this paper, we propose a hybrid framework, a discriminative mixture model, to bridge the gap between the ML training and the discriminative training for SMT. In Section 2, we briefly review the ME baseline of this work. In Section 3, we introduce the discriminative mixture model that combines various types of features. In Section 4, we present experimental results on a large-scale Arabic-English MT task with focuses on feature combination, alignment combination, and domain adaptation, respectively. Section 5 concludes the paper. 

 Maximum-Entropy Model for MT In this section we give a brief review of a special maximum-entropy (ME) model as introduced in  (Ittycheriah and Roukos, 2007) . The model has the following form, p(t, j|s) = p 0 (t, j|s) Z(s) exp i ? i ? i (t, j, s), (1) where s is a source phrase, and t is a target phrase. j is the jump distance from the previously translated source word to the current source word. During training j can vary widely due to automatic word alignment in the parallel corpus. To limit the sparseness created by long jumps, j is capped to a window of source words (-5 to 5 words) around the last translated source word. Jumps outside the window are treated as being to the edge of the window. In Eq. (  1 ), p 0 is a prior distribution, Z is a normalizing term, and ? i (t, j, s) are the features of the model, each being a binary question asked about the source, distortion, and target information. The feature weights ? i can be estimated with the Improved Iterative Scaling (IIS) algorithm  (Della Pietra et al., 1997) , a maximum-likelihood-based approach. 3 Discriminative Mixture Model 

 Mixture Model Now we introduce the discriminative mixture model. Suppose we partition the feature space into multiple clusters (details in Section 3.2). Let the probability of target phrase and jump given certain source phrase for cluster k be p k (t, j|s) = 1 Z k (s) exp i ? ki ? ki (t, j, s), (2) where Z k is a normalizing factor for cluster k. We propose a log-linear mixture model as shown in Eq. (3). p(t, j|s) = p 0 (t, j|s) Z(s) k p k (t, j|s) w k . (3) It can be rewritten in the log domain as log p(t, j|s) = log p 0 (t, j|s) Z(s) + k w k log p k (t, j|s) = log p 0 (t, j|s) Z(s) ? k w k log Z k (s) + k w k i ? ki ? ki (t, j, s). (4) The individual feature weights ? ki for the i-th feature in cluster k are estimated in the maximumentropy framework as in the baseline model. However, the mixture weights w k can be optimized directly towards the translation evaluation metric, such as BLEU  (Papineni et al., 2002) , along with other usual costs (e.g. language model scores) on a development set. Note that the number of mixture components is relatively small (less than 10) compared to millions of features in baseline. Hence the optimization can be conducted easily to generate reliable mixture weights for decoding with MERT  (Och, 2003)  or other optimization algorithms, such as the Simplex Armijo Downhill algorithm proposed in  (Zhao and Chen, 2009) . 

 Partition of Feature Space Given the proposed mixture model, how to split the feature space into multiple regions becomes crucial. In order to surpass the baseline model, where all features can be viewed as existing in a single mixture component, the separated mixture components should be complementary to each other. In this work, we explore three different ways of partitions, based on either feature types, word alignment types, or the domain of training data. In the feature-type-based partition, we split the ME features into 8 categories: ? F1: Lexical features that examine source word, target word and jump; ? F2: Lexical context features that examine source word, target word, the previous source word, the next source word and jump; ? F3: Lexical context features that examine source word, target word, the previous source word, the previous target word and jump; ? F4: Lexical context features that examine source word, target word, the previous or next source word and jump; ? F5: Segmentation features based on morphological analysis that examine source morphemes, target word and jump; ? F6: Part-of-speech (POS) features that examine the source and target POS tags and their neighbors, along with target word and jump; ? F7: Source parse tree features that collect the information from the parse labels of the source words and their siblings in the parse trees, along with target word and jump; ? F8: Coverage features that examine the coverage status of the source words to the left and to the right. They fire only if the left source is open (untranslated) or the right source is closed. All the features falling in the same feature category/cluster are tied to each other to share the same mixture weights at the upper level as in Eq. (  3 ). Besides the feature-type-based clustering, we can also divide the feature space based on word alignment types, such as supervised alignment versus unsupervised alignment (to be described in the experiment section). For each type of word alignment, we build a mixture component with millions of ME features. On the task of domain adaptation, we can also split the training data based on their domain/resources, with each mixture component representing a specific domain. 

 Experiments 

 Data and Baseline We conduct a set of experiments on an Arabic-to-English MT task. The training data includes the UN parallel corpus and LDC-released parallel corpora, with about 10M sentence pairs and 300M words in total (counted at the English side). For each sentence in the training, three types of word alignments are created: maximum entropy alignment  (Ittycheriah and Roukos, 2005) , GIZA++ alignment  (Och and Ney, 2000) , and HMM alignment  (Vogel et al., 1996) . Our tuning and test sets are extracted from the GALE DEV10 Newswire set, with no overlap between tuning and test. There are 1063 sentences (168 documents) in the tuning set, and 1089 sentences (168 documents) in the test set. Both sets have one reference translation for each sentence. Instead of using all the training data, we sample the training corpus based on the tuning/test set to train the systems more efficiently. In the end, about 1.5M sentence pairs are selected for the sampled training. A 5-gram language model is trained from the English Gigaword corpus and the English portion of the parallel corpus used in the translation model training. In this work, the decoding weights for both the baseline and the mixture model are tuned with the Simplex Armijo Downhill algorithm  (Zhao and Chen, 2009)    

 Feature Combination We first experiment with the feature-type-based clustering as described in Section 3.2. The translation results on the test set from the baseline and the mixture model are listed in Table  1 . The MT performance is measured with the widely adopted BLEU metric. We also evaluate the systems that utilize only one of the mixture components (F1 to F8). The number of features used in each system is also listed in the table. As we can see, when using all 18M features in the baseline model, without mixture weighting, the baseline achieved 3.3 points higher BLEU score than F5 (the worst component), and 0.8 higher BLEU score than F7 (the best component). With the log-linear mixture model, we obtained 0.6 gain compared to the baseline. Since there are exactly the same number of features in the baseline and mixture model, the better performance is due to two facts: separate training of the feature weights ? within each mixture component; the discriminative training of mixture weights w. The first one allows better parameter estimation given the number of features in each mixture component is much less than that in the baseline. The second factor connects the mixture weighting to the final translation performance directly. In the baseline, all feature weights are trained together solely under the maximum likelihood criterion, with no differentiation of the various types of features in terms of their contribution to the translation performance.  

 System 

 Alignment Combination In   

 Domain Adaptation Another popular task in SMT is domain adaptation  (Foster et al., 2010) . It tries to take advantage of any out-of-domain training data by combining them with the in-domain data in an appropriate way. In our sub-sampled training corpus, there exist three subsets: newswire (1M sentences), weblog (200K), and UN data (300K). We train three mixture components, each on one of the training subsets. All results are compared in Table  3 . The baseline that was trained on all the data achieved 0.5 gain compared to using the newswire training data alone (understandably it is the best component given the newswire test data). Note that since the baseline is trained on subsampled training data, there is already certain domain adaptation effect involved. On top of that, the mixture model results in another 0.45 gain in BLEU. All the improvements in the mixture models above against the baseline are statistically significant with p-value < 0.0001 by using the confidence tool described in  (Zhang and Vogel, 2004) . 

 Conclusion In this paper we presented a novel discriminative mixture model for bridging the gap between the maximum-likelihood training and the discriminative training in SMT. We partition the feature space into multiple regions. The features in each region are tied together to share the same mixture weights that are optimized towards the maximum BLEU scores. It was shown that the same model structure can be ef-fectively applied to feature combination, alignment combination and domain adaptation. We also point out that it is straightforward to combine any of these three. For example, we can cluster the features based on both feature types and alignments. Further improvement may be achieved with other feature space partition approaches in the future. towards the maximum BLEU. System Features BLEU F1 685K 37.11 F2 5516K 38.43 F3 4457K 37.75 F4 3884K 37.56 F5 103K 36.03 F6 325K 37.89 F7 1584K 38.56 F8 1605K 37.49 Baseline 18159K 39.36 Mixture 18159K 39.97 Table 1: MT results with individual mixture component (F1 to F8), baseline, or mixture model. 
