title
MT Quality Estimation for Computer-assisted Translation: Does it Really Help?

abstract
The usefulness of translation quality estimation (QE) to increase productivity in a computer-assisted translation (CAT) framework is a widely held assumption  (Specia, 2011; Huang et al., 2014) . So far, however, the validity of this assumption has not been yet demonstrated through sound evaluations in realistic settings. To this aim, we report on an evaluation involving professional translators operating with a CAT tool in controlled but natural conditions. Contrastive experiments are carried out by measuring post-editing time differences when: i) translation suggestions are presented together with binary quality estimates, and ii) the same suggestions are presented without quality indicators. Translators' productivity in the two conditions is analysed in a principled way, accounting for the main factors (e.g. differences in translators' behaviour, quality of the suggestions) that directly impact on time measurements. While the general assumption about the usefulness of QE is verified, significance testing results reveal that real productivity gains can be observed only under specific conditions.

Introduction Machine translation (MT) quality estimation aims to automatically predict the expected time (e.g. in seconds) or effort (e.g. number of editing operations) required to correct machine-translated sentences into publishable translations  (Specia et al., 2009; Mehdad et al., 2012; Turchi et al., 2014a; C. de Souza et al., 2015) . In principle, the task has a number of practical applications. An intuitive one is speeding-up the work of human translators operating with a CAT tool, a software de-signed to support and facilitate the translation process by proposing suggestions that can be edited by the user. The idea is that, since the suggestions can be useful (good, hence post-editable) or useless (poor, hence requiring complete re-writing), reliable quality indicators could help to reduce the time spent by the user to decide which action to take (to correct or re-translate). So far, despite the potential practical benefits, the progress in QE research has not been followed by conclusive results that demonstrate whether the use of quality labels can actually lead to noticeable productivity gains in the CAT framework. To the best of our knowledge, most prior works limit the analysis to the intrinsic evaluation of QE performance on gold-standard data  (Callison-Burch et al., 2012; Bojar et al., 2013; Bojar et al., 2014) . On-field evaluation is indeed a complex task, as it requires: i) the availability of a CAT tool capable to integrate MT QE functionalities, ii) professional translators used to MT post-editing, iii) a sound evaluation protocol to perform betweensubject comparisons, 1 and iv) robust analysis techniques to measure statistical significance under variable conditions (e.g. differences in users' postediting behavior). To bypass these issues, the works more closely related to our investigation resort to controlled and simplified evaluation protocols. For instance, in  (Specia, 2011)  the impact of QE predictions on translators' productivity is analysed by measuring the number of words that can be post-edited in a fixed amount of time. The evaluation, however, only concentrates on the use of QE to rank MT outputs, and the gains in translation speed are measured against the contrastive condition in which no QE-based ranking mechanism is used. In this artificial scenario, the analysis disregards the relation between the usefulness of QE and the intrinsic features of the top-ranked translations (e.g. sentence length, quality of the MT). More recently,  Huang et al. (2014)  claimed a 10% productivity increase when translation is supported by the estimates of an adaptive QE model. Their analysis, however, compares a condition in which MT suggestions are presented with confidence labels (the two factors are not decoupled) against the contrastive condition in which no MT suggestion is presented at all. Significance testing, moreover, is not performed. The remainder of this work describes our on-field evaluation addressing (through objective measurements and robust significance tests) the two key questions: ? Does QE really help in the CAT scenario? ? If yes, under what conditions? 

 Experimental Setup One of the key questions in utilising QE in the CAT scenario is how to relay QE information to the user. In our experiments, we evaluate a way of visualising MT quality estimates that is based on a color-coded binary classification (green vs. red) as an alternative to real-valued quality labels. In our context, 'green' means that post-editing the translation is expected to be faster than translation from scratch, while 'red' means that post-editing the translation is expected to take longer than translating from scratch. This decision rests on the assumption that the two-color scheme is more immediate than realvalued scores, which require some interpretation by the user. Analysing the difference between alternative visualisation schemes, however, is certainly an aspect that we want to explore in the future. 

 The CAT Framework To keep the experimental conditions as natural as possible, we analyse the impact of QE labels on translators' productivity in a real CAT environment. To this aim, we use the open-source Mate-Cat tool  (Federico et al., 2014) , which has been slightly changed in two ways. First, the tool has been adapted to provide only one single translation suggestion (MT output) per segment, instead of the usual three (one MT suggestion plus two Translation Memory matches). Second, each suggestion is presented with a colored flag (green for good, red for bad), which indicates its expected quality and usefulness to the post-editor. In the contrastive condition (no binary QE visualization), grey is used as the neutral and uniform flag color. 

 Getting binary quality labels. The experiment is set up for a between-subject comparison on a single long document as follows. First, the document is split in two parts. The first part serves as the training portion for a binary quality estimator; the second part is reserved for evaluation. The training portion is machine-translated with a state-of-the-art, phrasebased Moses system  (Koehn et al., 2007)  2 and post-edited under standard conditions (i.e. without visualising QE information) by the same users involved in the testing phase. Based on their postedits, the raw MT output samples are then labeled as 'good' or 'bad' by considering the HTER  (Snover et al., 2006 ) calculated between raw MT output and its post-edited version.  3  Our labeling criterion follows the empirical findings of  (Turchi et al., 2013; Turchi et al., 2014b) , which indicate an HTER value of 0.4 as boundary between posteditable (HTER ? 0.4) and useless suggestions (HTER> 0.4). Then, to model the subjective concept of quality of different subjects, for of each translator we train a separate binary QE classifier on the labeled samples. For this purpose we use the Scikit-learn implementation of support vector machines  (Pedregosa et al., 2011) , training our models with the 17 baseline features proposed by  Specia et al. (2009) . This feature set mainly takes into account the complexity of the source sentence (e.g. number of tokens, number of translations per source word) and the fluency of the target translation (e.g. language model probabilities). The features are extracted from the data available at prediction time (source text and raw MT output) by using an adapted version  (Shah et al., 2014)  of the open-source QuEst software  portion of the respective document, which is eventually sent to each post-editor to collect time and productivity measurements. 2.3 Getting post-editing time measurements. While translating the test portion of the document, each translator is given an even and random distribution of segments labeled according to the test condition (colored flags) and segments labeled according to the baseline, contrastive condition (uniform grey flags). In the distribution of the data, some constraints were identified to ensure the soundness of the evaluation in the two conditions: i) each translator must post-edit all the segments of the test portion of the document, ii) each translator must post-edit the segments of the test set only once, iii) all translators must post-edit the same amount of segments with colored and grey labels. After post-editing, the post-editing times are analysed to assess the impact of the binary coloring scheme on translators' productivity. 

 Results We applied our procedure on an English user manual (Information Technology domain) to be translated into Italian. Post-editing was performed independently by four professional translators, so that two measurements (post-editing time) for each segment and condition could be collected. Training and and test respectively contained 542 and 847 segments. Half of the 847 test segments were presented with colored QE flags, with a ratio of green to red labels of about 75% 'good' and 25% 'bad'. 

 Preliminary analysis Before addressing our research questions, we performed a preliminary analysis aimed to verify the reliability of our experimental protocol and the consequent findings. Indeed, an inherent risk of presenting post-editors with an unbalanced distribution of colored flags is to incur in unexpected subconscious effects. For instance, green flags could be misinterpreted as a sort of pre-validation, and induce post-editors to spend less time on the corresponding segments (by producing fewer changes). To check this hypothesis we compared the HTER scores obtained in the two conditions (colored vs. grey flags), assuming that noticeable differences would be evidence of unwanted psychological effects. The very close values measured in the two conditions (the average HTER is respectively 23.9 and 24.1) indicate that the professional post-editors involved in the experiment did what they were asked for, by always changing what had to be corrected in the proposed suggestions, independently from the color of the associated flags. In light of this, post-editing time variations in different conditions can be reasonably ascribed to the effect of QE labels on the time spent by the translators to decide whether correcting or re-translating a given suggestion. 

 Does QE Really Help? To analyse the impact of our quality estimates on translators' productivity, we first compared the average post-editing time (PET -seconds per word) under the two conditions (colored vs. grey flags). The results of this rough, global analysis are reported in Table  1 , first row. As can be seen, the average PET values indicate a productivity increase of about 1.5 seconds per word when colored flags are provided. Significance tests, however, indicate that such increase is not significant (p > 0.05, measured by approximate randomization  (Noreen, 1989; Riezler and Maxwell, 2005) ). An analysis of the collected data to better understand these results and the rather high average PET values observed (8 to 9.5 secs. per word) evidenced both a large number of outliers, and a high PET variability across post-editors.  4  To check whether these factors make existing PET differences opaque to our study, we performed further analysis by normalizing the PET of each translator with the robust z-score technique (Rousseeuw and Leroy, 1987).  5  The twofold advantage of this method is to mitigate idiosyncratic differences in translators' behavior, and reduce the influence of outliers. To further limit the impact of outliers, we also moved from a comparison based on average PET measurements to a ranking-based method in which we count the number of times the segments presented with colored flags were post-edited faster than those presented with grey flags. For each of the (PET colored, PET grey) pairs measured for the test segments, the percentage of wins (i.e. lower time) of PET colored is calculated. As shown in the second row of Table 1, a small but statistically significant difference between the two conditions indeed exists. Although the usefulness of QE in the CAT framework seems hence to be verified, the extent of its contribution is rather small (51.7% of wins). This motivates an additional analysis, aimed to verify if such marginal global gains hide larger local productivity improvements under specific conditions. 

 Under what Conditions does QE Help? To address this question, we analysed two important factors that can influence translators' productivity measurements: the length (number of tokens) of the source sentences and the quality (HTER) of the proposed MT suggestions. To this aim, all the (PET colored, PET grey) pairs were assigned to three bins based on the length of the source sentences: short (length?5), medium (5<length?20), and long (length>20). Then, in each bin, ten levels of MT quality were identified (HTER ? 0.1, 0.2, . . ., 1). Finally, for each bin and HTER threshold, we applied the rankingthe PET of each segment the post-editor median and dividing by the post-editor median absolute deviation (MAD). based method described in the previous section. The left plot of Figure  1  shows how the "% wins of colored" varies depending on the two factors on all the collected pairs. As can be seen, for MT suggestions of short and medium length the percentage of wins is always above 50%, while its value is systematically lower for the long sentences when HTER>0.1. However, the differences are statistically significant only for medium-length suggestions, and when HTER>0.1. Such condition, in particular when 0.2<HTER?0.5, seems to represent the ideal situation in which QE labels can actually contribute to speed-up translators' work. Indeed, in terms of PET, the average productivity gain of 0.663 secs. per word measured in the [0.2 ? 0.5] HTER interval is statistically significant. Although our translator-specific binary QE classifiers (see Section 2) have acceptable performance (on average 80% accuracy on the test data for all post-editors), 6 to check the validity of our conclusions we also investigated if, and to what extent, our results are influenced by classification errors. To this aim, we removed from the three bins those pairs that contain a misclassified instance (i.e. the pairs in which there is a mismatch between the predicted label and the true HTER measured after post-editing).  7  The results obtained by applying our rankingbased method to the remaining pairs are shown in the right plot of Figure  1 . In this "ideal", error-free scenario the situation slightly changes (unsurprisingly, the "% wins of colored" slightly increases, especially for long suggestions for which we have the highest number of misclassifications), but the overall conclusions remain the same. In particular, the higher percentage of wins is statistically significant only for medium-length suggestions with HTER>0.1 and, in the best case (HTER?0.2) it is about 56.0%. 

 Conclusion We presented the results of an on-field evaluation aimed to verify the widely held assumption that QE information can be useful to speed-up MT post-editing in the CAT scenario. Our results suggest that this assumption should be put into perspective. On one side, global PET measurements do not necessarily show statistically significant productivity gains,  8  indicating that the contribution of QE falls below expectations (our first contribution). On the other side, an in-depth analysis abstracting from the presence of outliers and the high variability across post-editors, indicates that the usefulness of QE is verified, at least to some extent (our second contribution). Indeed, the marginal productivity gains observed with QE at a global level become statistically significant in specific conditions, depending on the length (between 5 and 20 words) of the source sentences and the quality (0.2<HTER?0.5) of the proposed MT suggestions (our third contribution). Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1: % wins of colored with respect to length and quality of MT output. Left: all pairs. Right: only pairs with correct color predictions. 
