title
Patti O'Neill-Brown , AMTA VP , Networking chair Natalia Levitina , AMTA Secretary Jen Doyon , AMTA Treasurer Kevin Duh , Research Track Co-chair Paco Guzman , Research Track Co-chair Janice Campbell , Users and Providers Track Co-chair Jay Marciano , Users and Providers Track Co-chair , Workshops and Tutorials Chair Konstantin Savenkov , Users and Providers Track Co-chair Alex Yanishevsky , Users and Providers Track Co-chair , Conference Online Platform Chair Ben Huyck , Government Track Co-chair Steve La Rocca , Government Track Co-chair Ray Flournoy , Sponsorships Chair Kenton Murray , Student Mentoring Chair Elaine O'Curran , AMTA Counselor , Publications Chair Alon Lavie , AMTA Consultant Konstantin Dranch , Communications Chair Kate Ozerova , Marketing Lead Darius Hughes , Webmaster Again , welcome one and all to MT Summit XVIII 2021 !
I look forward to " seeing " you online and hopefully , too , in person in the future
abstract
Welcome to the 18th biennial conference of the International Association of Machine Translation ( IAMT ) - MT Summit 2021 Virtual !
Dear MT Colleagues and Friends ,
This year 's MT Summit is hosted by the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas ( AMTA ) .
Every two years , the Summit is hosted on a rotating basis by one of the three sister organizations comprising IAMT : the European Association for Machine Translation ( EAMT ) , the Asian-Pacific Association for Machine Translation ( AAMT ) , and of course , AMTA .
While each of these organizations holds its own conferences annually or biennially , the Summit is always held in oddnumbered years , and this year , AMTA is grateful to have that honor .
After a tremendously successful MT Summit XVII held in Dublin in 2019 , we anticipated an equally successfully Summit in 2021 given the rapidly accelerating interest in and research and development of neural machine translation ( NMT ) in both academia and industry .
But as you all know , the year 2020 brought a major surprise that no one anticipated .
Our biennial AMTA conference , scheduled for the fall of 2020 in Orlando , Florida was transformed into a completely virtual conference after much consternation followed by a great deal of effort .
We successfully rescheduled the MT Summit 2021 conference at the same venue for the following year , thinking that it would at least be a " hybrid " conference , but alas , here we are once again with a completely virtual conference .
This decision was made late in the game last April when , based on the results of a survey of likely participants , it become obvious that the vast majority would not be attending in person .
Recent spikes in the cases of COVID throughout the world have further justified our decision to go completely virtual .
There have been some silver linings to this COVID cloud , however , the main one being that our AMTA 2020 virtual attendance was double that of previous years , and we anticipate that attendance for the virtual Summit will be at least double what it was in Dublin .
We are also grateful that once again , we were able to reschedule our intended venue in Orlando , Florida for AMTA 2022 .
We hope that many of you will join us there in person !
And yes , we will still add a virtual component to the conference for those who are yet unable to travel .
But enough of this COVID - related confusion !
We are very pleased with the response we have had to our calls for papers , presentations , workshops , tutorials , and exhibitions for MT Summit 2021 and we are sure you 'll agree that the program is brimming with relevant , exciting , and useful information , not to mention the many opportunities to view the latest technology demonstrations and opportunities to network with colleagues both old and new from across the MT spectrum .
The most unique aspect of these conferences is that they are truly global gatherings of MT researchers , developers , providers , and users .
Academics , students , and commercial researchers and developers are able to share their latest results and offerings with colleagues , in addition to receiving and understanding real-world user requirements .
Individual MT users , as well as those from language services providers , enterprises , and governments , benefit from updates on leading - edge R&D in machine translation and have a chance to present and discuss their use cases .
At this point , I need to give some serious thanks to many organizations and individuals who have made this conference possible .
First , we have received amazing support from our sponsors , for which we are tremendously grateful !
Our visionary sponsor , Microsoft , made it possible for the first 150 students to register for the conference at a very significant discount , and those students quickly took advantage of this generous offer .
Our Leader- level sponsors , who will be sponsoring our conference tracks , include : Apple , Intento , Lilt , Pangeanic , ( RWS ) Language Weaver , Systran , Vistatec , and Yandex Cloud .
Our Patron-level sponsors are : Amazon ( AWS ) , Facebook AI , Google , Kudo , Lengoo , Logrus Global , Star , and Welocalize .
To all these companies we express our most sincere gratitude for their support of MT Summit 2021 .
Many of them will also give demonstrations of their systems and software during our Technology Exhibition Fair , and we hope that all our attendees will take advantage of this great opportunity to see the very latest commercial offerings and advancements in the world of MT .
We are grateful to have three additional exhibitors in the Fair as well : CustomMT , KantanMT , and XTM .
Finally , I need to give special thanks and recognition to the members of our organizing committee , all of whom have worked very hard and given many hours and days of their time , for the most part voluntarily , to make MT Summit 2021 a success .
Listing their names and official positions does n't really seem to be an adequate reflection of their work and sacrifice , but it 's the best I can do here , and I trust they know how much their efforts are truly appreciated .
Introduction
The research track at MTSummit 2021 continues the tradition of bringing MT practitioners together from academia , industry and government from around the world .
This year we have a very rich program with 24 papers from a variety of topics .
The most popular subject this year is low-resource machine translation , with papers spanning unsupervised MT , bilingual lexicon induction and curriculum learning .
In addition , we have many works discussing modeling ( e.g. transfer learning , domain adaptation and reinforcement learning ) ; others discussing morphology ( e.g. target - side inflection , subword tokenization ) ; domain-specific translation ( e.g. user- generated content translation , product- reviews ) ; and papers performing error analyses of modern NMT systems and understanding their limitations .
We are also excited about our invited keynote speakers for the research track : Lucia Specia ( Imperial College London ) will talk about Multimodal Simultaneous MT , while Graham Neubig ( Carnegie Mellon University ) will discuss Context - aware MT .
We hope that this conference brings many productive exchanges of ideas and sparks future collaborations .
Contents
