title
Improving Machine Translation of Rare and Unseen Word Senses
abstract
The performance of NMT systems has improved drastically in the past few years but the translation of multi-sense words still poses a challenge .
Since word senses are not represented uniformly in the parallel corpora used for training , there is an excessive use of the most frequent sense in MT output .
In this work , we propose CMBT ( Contextuallymined Back - Translation ) , an approach for improving multi-sense word translation leveraging pre-trained cross-lingual contextual word representations ( CCWRs ) .
Because of their contextual sensitivity and their large pretraining data , CCWRs can easily capture word senses that are missing or very rare in parallel corpora used to train MT .
Specifically , CMBT applies bilingual lexicon induction on CCWRs to mine sense-specific target sentences from a monolingual dataset , and then back - translates these sentences to generate a pseudo parallel corpus as additional training data for an MT system .
We test the translation quality of ambiguous words on the MuCoW test suite , which was built to test the word sense disambiguation effectiveness of MT systems .
We show that our system improves on the translation of difficult unseen and low frequency word senses .
train bin system F 1 unseen 0- 0 ALL + 25.21 ? 9.59 CMBT + 34.55 ? 0.25 all ALL + 72.00 ? 1.51 CMBT + 73.83 ?
0.32 sample - 10 0-20 ALL + 43.37 ? 3.65 CMBT + 46.75 ?
0.27 20-40 ALL + 65.04 ? 0.55 CMBT + 66.82 ? 2.23 all ALL + 75.95 ?
0.09 CMBT + 76.50 ?
0.64
Introduction Recent NMT systems have remarkable performance for many languages ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ; Xia et al. , 2019 ) but there are still numerous areas for improvement .
One such important area concerns the disambiguation and translation of multisense words .
It is particularly challenging to MT systems as sense distribution is skewed with some senses rarely seen or missing in the parallel corpora .
This results in the MT system producing translation errors for these rare / unseen senses , causing incomprehensible output sentences .
In this work we aim at improving the translation of rare and unseen senses of ambiguous words .
Previously
Tang et al . ( 2018
Tang et al. ( , 2020 showed that encoder-decoder based NMT systems integrate information relevant for WSD into the encoder hidden states , but finding the correct sense is still a challenging task and NMT systems are biased toward the most frequent senses of words ( Liu et al. , 2018 ) .
Disambiguation errors are often due to over-reliance on training data artifacts , such as frequent word co-occurrences ( e.g. hot spring is always translated as the thermal activity and not as a season ) , instead of a deeper understanding of the multi-sense words given the input sentences ( Emelin et al. , 2020 ) .
Additionally , MT systems tend to learn and use frequent words more often and disregard less frequent ones ( Vanmassenhove et al. , 2019 ) .
Previous work has improved the translation of ambiguous words , e.g. , by leveraging lexical resources ( Pu et al. , 2018 ) or sense specific embeddings ( Liu et al. , 2018 ) , but they are restricted to the senses seen in the parallel training corpus and not trained on missing senses .
In contrast , we propose a method to mine addi-tional data containing the contextual translations of rare and unseen senses without relying on them being in parallel corpora .
Our method , called CMBT ( Contextually - mined Back - Translation ) , relies on contextualized cross-lingual word representations ( CCWRs ) to translate source language multi-sense words and find target language sentences containing the translations of the right senses .
We then build a synthetic parallel corpus by back - translating these sentences , making sure that the original multisense words are contained on the source side , in order to extend the training corpus for better sense coverage .
We illustrate our method in Figure 1 .
The advantage of our approach is that CCWRs , such as mBERT ( Devlin et al. , 2017 ) or XLM -R ( Conneau et al. , 2020 ) , can be trained on cheap and large monolingual corpora covering a wide frequency range of word senses .
By leveraging CCWR - mined sentences containing the translations of these senses in the form of a synthetic parallel corpus , our MT system is not restricted to frequent senses seen in the parallel training corpus .
We test our approach on English ?
German using the MuCoW test suite ( Raganato et al. , 2019 ( Raganato et al. , , 2020 .
Although it was built to test overall WSD performance of MT systems , we create subsets of the provided training corpus to test on unseen and rare senses more directly .
Our experiments show that using mined sentences as additional data for our NMT systems consistently improves the translation performance ( F 1 ) of rare and unseen senses .
Our proposed approach can be effectively applied to other language pairs as well , since the required resources are widely available .
Related Work
The problem of WSD is long-standing and extensively studied .
Multiple neural systems were proposed , e.g. , by relying on sequence - to-sequence architectures ( Raganato et al. , 2017 ) , using sense embeddings ( Kumar et al. , 2019 ) or pre-trained language models ( Pasini et al. , 2021 ) .
It was shown that WSD positively impacts the performance of downstream applications , such as information retrieval ( Zhong and Ng , 2012 ) , sentiment analysis ( Pilehvar et al. , 2017 ) or topic classification ( Shimura et al. , 2019 ) . WSD is an important problem for MT as well .
Previously it was shown that the translation performance can be improved by integrating word sense information into MT systems .
In ( Pu et al. , 2017 ) sense labels were assigned to each multisense word using K-means clustering , which served as additional information for a statistical MT system .
Similarly , explicit word sense information using WordNet was integrated into NMT systems in ( Pu et al. , 2018 ) .
Liu et al. ( 2018 ) leveraged sense embeddings induced by specialized LSTM modules , while lexical chains of semantically similar words within a document were employed in ( Rios et al. , 2017 ) .
Although these approaches do improve WSD performance , they are restricted to the senses seen frequently in the parallel training corpus .
In contrast , we focus on the improvement of senses that are missing or very rare by building a synthetic parallel corpus containing these senses using back - translation ( Sennrich et al. , 2016 ) .
Similarly , Huck et al. ( 2019 ) back - translated a carefully selected set of sentences to improve the translation of out-of- vocabulary ( OOV ) words , i.e. , words that are contained in the text to be translated but not in the training corpus .
They used bilingual fast - Text ( Bojanowski et al. , 2017 ) embeddings to find all translations of OOVs independent of their contexts .
In contrast , we consider the whole sentence when translating multi-sense words in order to determine the right translation of the right sense used in the right context using CCWRs , which we show to be crucial to improve missing and rare sense translation .
Arthaud et al. ( 2021 ) proposed a data augmentation approach to adapt MT systems to novel vocabulary in human-submitted translations using CCWRs .
They generate training samples for the novel words by mining parallel sentence pairs with similar contexts and adding the novel words to them .
In contrast , our approach does not rely on parallel sentences , using only monolingual data and back -translation .
Various datasets were proposed to test WSD , such as those released by the series of Senseval ( Edmonds and Cotton , 2001 ; Mihalcea et al. , 2004 ) and SemEval ( Agirre et al. , 2010 ; Navigli et al. , 2013 ; Moro and Navigli , 2015 ) shared tasks .
While most datasets are monolingual , Pasini et al . ( 2021 ) introduced XL - WSD supporting 18 languages allowing to evaluate zero-shot cross-lingual WSD approaches .
To test how well MT systems can disambiguate multi-sense words in their outputs Rios et al . ( 2017 ) created the parallel corpus called Con-traWSD where for each source sentence containing an ambiguous word two translations are given with the correct and incorrect senses respectively which have to be scored by the MT systems .
The MuCoW dataset was introduced for a more direct evaluation where instead of scoring given target language sentences the translations of multi-sense words in the MT systems ' outputs are evaluated ( Raganato et al. , 2019 ( Raganato et al. , , 2020 .
We use MuCoW to evaluate our approach .
Approach
The goal of CMBT is to incorporate contextdependent word translation that is able to deal with rare and unseen senses and leverage cheap monolingual data as additional training data for our NMT system for better multi-sense word translation .
The main steps of our approach are the following : i ) we detect multi-sense words in the source side of test corpus using BabelNet ( Navigli and Ponzetto , 2012 ) , which ii ) we translate using CCWRs and mine target language sentences containing these translations .
iii )
We back - translate these sentences to the source language using a baseline NMT system .
We use a special marker placed in the target language sentences , which are replaced with the multi-sense words on the source side , in order to ensure the presence of rare and unseen senses in the new corpus .
Finally , we fine- tune our base NMT system using the gold and additional synthetic parallel data .
We summarize the pipeline in our approach in Figure 1 and detail the three main steps below :
Multi-Sense Word Detection
As the first step , we identify multi-sense words in the test corpus relying on BabelNet , a publicly available multilingual lexical resource covering 284 languages ( Navigli and Ponzetto , 2012 ) .
Since the MuCoW dataset focuses on nouns only , we first take all English nouns from the test corpus .
1
We then filter out single sense nouns by keeping only those which are contained in at least two synsets .
However BabelNet has a very fine grained set of synsets which would result in a list containing many single sense nouns as well due to their inclusion in multiple synsets .
Thus before filtering we merge some of the synsets using English - German interlingual links in BabelNet which specify possible German translations of the words in a given English synset .
More precisely , we merge English synsets which have overlapping sets of translations .
The filtering procedure using the merged synsets resulted in 3 732 multi-sense nouns containing 181 out of the 206 gold multi-sense words in the Mu-CoW test corpus .
2
We note that although BabelNet covers a large set of languages , the language of the application area might not be supported .
However , CMBT only requires a list of source language multi-sense words as input which can be acquired using unsupervised WSD systems as well , such as the word embeddings based SenseGram ( Pelevina et al. , 2016 ) .
We argue that our approach is robust against false positive multi-sense words , since we would mine sentences containing their single sense , thus the use of a high recall list is preferable in such cases .
Sentence mining Given the multi-sense words we mine target language sentences containing the translations of their different senses .
However we do not mine all possible senses of the words but only those which are contained in the input corpus to be translated , i.e. , the source side of the test corpus in our case .
For this we perform bilingual token - level sense retrieval ( BTSR ) ( Liu et al. , 2019 ) where the task given a source word in a context ( sentence ) is to retrieve its translation having the same sense along with a matching target context .
More formally , given a ( w s , c s ) ?
V s ?
D s pair the task is to retrieve ( w t , c t ) ?
V t ?
D t , such that w t is the translation of w s and the sense of w s in context c s matches the sense of w t in c t .
V s , V t and D s , D t are the vocabularies and the monolingual datasets of the source and target languages respectively .
To mine relevant sentences , we take each multisense word contained in each source sentence as the input ( w s , c s ) pairs .
Since a given word type is contained in multiple sentences , we perform mining using these sentences individually .
As the translation target candidates , we take a target language monolingual corpus ( see Section 4.3 for more details ) and consider each word in each sentence as a candidate ( w t , c t ) pair .
For each source input pair , we take the top - 5 3 most similar target pair scored by : sim (( w s , c s ) , ( w t , c t ) ) = cos ( E ( ws , cs ) , E ( wt , ct ) ) ( 1 ) where E ( w , c ) is the CCWR of word w in context c and cos is the cosine similarity of two embeddings .
As CCWR of a given word we averaged the corresponding vectors of the upper XLM -R layers ( 12 - 24 ) , motivated by the findings of Ethayarajh ( 2019 ) .
We discuss further details of the used CCWR models in Section 4.1 .
Finally , the retrieved sentences are considered as the output of the mining process and used in the next step .
NMT System Update
In the last step , we update our baseline English ?
German NMT system with the gold parallel data and the sentences mined above .
Using a system similar to the baseline but built in the reverse direction we back - translate the mined target language sentences by making sure that the original multi-sense word is contained in the backtranslation .
To achieve this we replace the related word in the target sentence with a special marker which is copied to the source side during translation .
After translation we replace the special markers on both sides with the correct words .
The following example depicts the process using a mined sentence for the multi-sense word bank : Input : Ich gehe am Ufer entlang .
Replace : Ich gehe am < MARK > entlang .
Translate : I walk along the < MARK >.
Restore : I walk along the bank .
To learn the copy mechanism of the special marker we use parallel sentences containing the marker to train the NMT system used for backtranslation .
More precisely , 1 % of the parallel sentences have one randomly selected source word and it 's corresponding translation ( determined by aligning the parallel data ) replaced with the marker .
Note that there is a small chance that the MT system does not generate the marker in the output in which case no replacement is performed .
Finally , we update our baseline English ?
German MT system by running further training steps on the concatenated gold and synthetic parallel corpora .
For further parameters we refer to Section 4.4 .
Experimental Setup
Cross-Lingual Word Representations
As CCWRs we make use of XLM -R large 4 ( Conneau et al. , 2020 ) , as previous works have shown good context-dependent cross-lingual correspondence in such multilingual models ( Ethayarajh , 2019 ; Liu et al. , 2019 ; Cao et al. , 2019 ) .
Although they are multi-lingual , it was shown that their crosslingual performance can be improved by applying an additional mapping step .
Thus following Liu et al . ( 2019 ) , we train a linear orthogonal mapping on XLM - R's context - average word type representations of word pairs extracted from the automatic word alignments in the parallel corpus which is used for MT training as well .
The context- average representations are first length normalized and then mean centered prior to alignment as it was shown to improve the mapping quality ( Artetxe et al. , 2018 ) .
On top of the orthogonal mapping , we also apply the meeting - in- the -middle technique proposed by Doval et al . ( 2020 ) that learns additional linear mappings of both source and target languages to further improve their alignment .
For exact details about the complete mapping process we refer to ( Liu et al. , 2019 ) .
Baselines
Other than comparing CMBT with XLM -R to the baseline NMT system , we compare the approach to Huck et al . ( 2019 ) , since it is able to leverage monolingual data to improve the translation of a list of words .
More precisely , we translate multisense words with BWEs instead of XLM -R , to show the importance of context based word translation for the translation of multi-sense words .
Since BWEs tend to rank the translations of words according to their frequency , this approach is comparable to the general back - translation approach , i.e. , updating NMT systems on randomly sampled sentences , but focusing more on the ambiguous words .
We build 300 dimensional fastText skipgram embeddings ( Bojanowski et al. , 2017 ) on Wikipedia dumps and align them using the same approach as for XLM - R ( Liu et al. , 2019 ) .
Similarly to CMBT , words are translated using cosine similarity taking top - 5 most similar candidates .
However , since BWE based bilingual lexicon induction ( BLI ) is context independent , we pick all sentences containing any of the translations , which are then down sampled to match the number of sentences mined by CMBT for comparability .
The rest of the steps , i.e. , back - translation and system training , are the same as for CMBT .
Our experiments show that although top - 5 translations based on BWEs can cover multiple senses of some words , it is important to take the contexts into consideration as well in order to perform i ) a more sense specific word translation and ii ) mine sentences which do not only contain the target words but have similar contexts compared to the source sentences in the test corpus for an efficient MT tuning .
Monolingual Dataset
We use 2 M randomly sampled German Wikipedia sentences for the mining process and restrict the vocabulary for translation candidates to the 500K 5 most frequent words .
We mine relevant sentences for all senses of the detected multi-sense words , including their frequent senses , since the frequency of senses in the training corpus is not known .
The mined corpus contains 252 898 unique sentences .
MT Systems
We train base Transformer NMT models ( Vaswani et al. , 2017 ) on the gold parallel data discussed below with early - stopping based on validation perplexity .
The model is trained on 4 Nvidia GTX 1080 ti GPUs with a per-GPU batch size of 4096 tokens and by delaying stochastic gradient descent updates with a factor of 2 .
The final model is an average of the best 10 checkpoints , where checkpoints are saved every 500 updates .
We use dropout and label smoothing with a value of 0.1 .
Fine-tuning this initial system with the concatenation of the gold and synthetic data is done using the same hyper-parameters with early - stopping based on validation perplexity .
The average of the best 10 checkpoints is chosen as the initial starting point for fine-tuning .
As a development set we merge newstest 2017- 2019 .
We use a beam size of 4 for back - translation and 5 for the translation of MuCoW .
All models are built using fairseq ( Ott et al. , 2019 ) .
The datasets are tokenized using Moses 6 .
We use BPE split-ting 7 with 32 K merge operations computed jointly on the source and target data .
Word alignment is performed using fastalign ( Dyer et al. , 2013 ) .
MuCoW Dataset
We run experiments on the English ?
German translation direction of the MuCoW dataset ( Raganato et al. , 2020 ) .
It was created specifically to test translation quality of ambiguous words by specifying the word and its gold sense for each test sentence .
The dataset provides small and big training parallel corpora containing 1.2 M and 3.0M sentence pairs respectively .
In order to test on rare and unseen senses more directly , we create two subsets of the latter .
We remove sentence pairs containing the rarest sense of any of the given multi-sense words to test on unseen senses ( 2.9 M pairs ) .
Secondly , we take a random 10 % sample of the sentence pairs containing a multi-sense word and all pairs containing no multi-sense words in sample - 10 ( 2.4 M pairs ) to test on rare senses .
By sampling data uniformly random in case of the latter , we make sure that only the frequency of the multi-sense words gets decreased , while keeping their original sense distribution .
Note that we only change the training set to have more word types with unseen and rare senses during training but keep the test set unchanged .
Our baseline NMT system is trained on these training sets without the additional mined data .
We evaluate our MT systems on word level ( F 1 ) using the official MuCoW evaluation script which calculates precision and recall values as : P = | correct senses | | correct senses | + | incorrect senses | ( 2 ) R = | correct senses | | test cases | ( 3 ) where a test case is an occurrence of a multi-sense word in a test sentence .
The dataset provides multiple correct translation options for a given sense , thus an occurrence of a multi-sense word ( sense ) is correctly translated if any of the translations of the correct sense are contained in the output sentence .
A sense is incorrect if any of the translations of the wrong senses of the given multi-sense word are contained in the output sentence .
A sense is train bin # system acc@1 acc@5 F 1 unseen 0 - 0 10 .
neither correct nor incorrect if none of the possible translations of the multi-sense word is contained .
Furthermore sentences are lemmatized , thus all morphological variants of a word are accepted .
We also calculate BLEU scores using ( Post , 2019 ) to show general MT performance .
In addition , we evaluate the word translation accuracy of XLM -R and BWEs on the gold MuCoW multi-sense words contained in each test sentence .
Similarly to BLI ( Vuli? and Korhonen , 2016 ) , we calculate acc@n ( n ? 1 , 5 ) scores by testing if any of the correct translations of the gold sense in a given test example is among the n most similar translation candidates .
Results and Discussion Unseen and rare sense translation
We present both the intrinsic performance of BWEs ( Huck et al. , 2019 ) or CMBT ( XLM - R ) based word translation ( acc@n ) and extrinsic MT system based translation ( F 1 ) in Table 1 .
We show results on senses in the test corpus which are missing from the unseen training corpus and detailed results on word senses that are rare ( relative frequency compared to the other senses of a given word is between 20 % and 40 % ) and very rare ( with relative frequency between 0 % and 20 % ) on sample - 10 .
In terms of acc@n CMBT word translation performs significantly better than BWEs .
This is not surprising , since the context independent BWEs predict the same translations for a given multisense word for each sentence it is contained in .
In contrast , XLM -R shows a better WSD performance train system acc@1 acc@5 F by relying on the context in the sentences .
Our improved NMT system using CMBT outperforms the baseline system in all setups in terms of F 1 .
It is especially effective on the unseen and very rare senses due to the additional synthetic sentence pairs containing these senses and their translations .
In addition , it is also effective for the rare senses in the higher relative frequency range bin .
BWEs based mining is also helpful for the unseen and very rare senses but it is less effective compared to CMBT .
Although BWEs are context independent , by taking top - 5 translations some of the senses can still be improved .
On the other hand , BWEs have minor negative effects for the higher frequency range .
All sense translation
We show results on all senses , i.e. , senses with relative frequency higher than 40 % as well , using the two training sets in Table 2 .
CMBT is also effective when evaluating on the whole MuCoW test dataset , but its performance is more prominent on the lower frequency ranges .
In contrast , BWEs achieved only a slight improvement on unseen and some performance drop on sample - 10 .
Lexicon- regularized translation
As mentioned , we built the list of English multi-sense words using BabelNet .
Since it also contains translation options for each word , we investigate whether we can make use of this additional information .
Fortunately , CMBT can be naturally extended to leverage such lexical resources .
8 During sentence mining with the lexiconregularized version of our approach ( CMBT + ) , we restrict the set of translation candidates when translating a given word with XLM -R to its possible Table 3 : Evaluation of the senses per frequency bins as well as all senses using the lexicon- regularized systems on the two datasets .
Differences compared to the best system ( CMBT in tables 1 and 2 ) are indicated .
translations as given by BabelNet .
Furthermore , we mine sentences based on all possible translations ( ALL + ) instead of taking top - 5 ranked by XLM -R .
Table 3 shows that the regularized systems achieved improvements compared to CMBT only in the higher frequency ranges but not in the missing or very rare sets .
ALL + achieved only minor improvements overall ( all ) on sample - 10 , while the performance decreased on unseen .
This indicates that without focused data mining , sentences containing rare and unseen senses are suppressed by the frequent senses .
In contrast , CMBT + achieved improvements on both setups by following the sense distribution of the test set .
However , the improvements are marginal which shows that the unregularized CMBT system is already able to retrieve the relevant senses of words without the additional information coming from BabelNet .
BLEU evaluation Finally , we show general MT performance on our training setups including the original MuCoW big setup as well for comparison in Table 4 .
It can be seen that our approach achieved improvements in terms of BLEU as well , further motivating its use .
Similarly to F 1 scores the improvements are more prominent when evaluating only on sentences containing missing or rare senses .
CMBT achieves best scores on the full test sets ( all ) of the unseen and sample - 10 setups , and a minor decrease on big .
However , BLEU score differences are minor and they do not correlate well with F 1 improvements .
As we show next , the minor differences in BLEU scores here are due to the fact that our approach mainly affects the translation of multi-sense words while leaving the translation of other words intact .
It is worth pointing out that BLEU scores may not be the ideal metric in this study as they are less sensitive to word-level translation improvement as compared with F1 scores .
This is similar to the findings of Arthaud et al . ( 2021 ) , who showed that improving the translation of a few selected words could lead even to a slight drop in BLEU .
Analysis
We manually looked at the translations of a few multi-sense words to have a better understanding of our system .
We present a few examples of the typical improvements and errors we found in Table 5 .
In example 1 both the BWEs based system and CMBT correctly translated bank to Ufer ( river bank ) which shows the positive effects of the additional data .
In contrast , in 2 and 3 which are examples produced under the sample - 10 and unseen conditions respectively , only CMBT managed to pick the right senses due to the better exploitation of the given context .
All systems are incorrect in 4 , however the output of CMBT ( brake pedal ) is related to vehicle / gas pedals ( the correct sense ) , while the base system 's output , Beschleuniger is more related to physics and chemical reactions , such as particle accelerator or a catalyst .
We reviewed the top - 5 translations given by BWEs and XLM -R for accelerator when it has the gas pedal sense in a test sentence , and found that the translations reflect the outputs of the MT systems .
This shows the effectiveness of the MT system 's update process and that improving CCWR based translation could lead to further improvements .
In example 5 CMBT is misled by the mossy bank , thus outputs the river bank instead of the bench sense in contrast to the baseline which correctly used the frequent Bank word .
Example 6 is incorrectly translated by all systems with different 1 . SRC
It is seen from afar sprawling along the banks like a cowherd taking a siesta by the water -side .
BASE
Es scheint aus der Ferne zu sein , wie ein Kabeljau an der Wasserseite eine Siesta nimmt .
BWE
Es scheint aus der Ferne an den Ufer zu ziehen wie ein Fisch , der an der Wasserseite eine Siesta nimmt .
CMBT
Es scheint aus der Ferne an den Ufer zu rasen wie ein Hirsch , der an der Wasserseite eine Siesta nimmt .
REF
Schon von weitem sieht man den Ort am Ufer lang hingestreckt liegen , wie einen Kuhhirten , der sich faulenzend am Bache hingeworfen hat .
GLOSS river bank ; 2 . SRC
Working men , kneeling on the banks , washed their bare arms in the water .
BASE Arbeiter , die an den Banken knieten , wuschen ihre blo?en Waffen im Wasser .
BWE Arbeitende M?nner knieten an den Banken nieder und wuschen ihre blo?en Arme im Wasser .
errors .
Additionally , by comparing the full outputs of the systems it can be seen that our approach is non-invasive , i.e. , it mostly affects the translations of multi-sense words and leaves the other parts of the sentences unchanged compared to the baseline , which is a big advantage of our approach and also explains the small BLEU differences in Table 4 . Finally , we present mined sentences based on two example source sentences containing the word bank in Table 6 .
The sentences indicate that our XLM -R based mining technique not only outputs the translation of the right sense but the mined sentences have similar contexts to the source sentences .
This allows the fine- tuned MT system to leverage information learned from sentences that are closely related to the input sentence during translation .
Conclusions
In this paper we proposed CMBT , a simple and effective approach for improved rare and unseen word sense translation .
It serves as a general framework that effectively exploits the contextdependent cross-lingual correspondence from a pre-trained CCWR for an MT system .
We show CMBT brings significant improvements for multisense word translation on the English ?
German MuCoW test set .
The improvements are the most pronounced when we directly targeted the evaluation of the difficult rare and unseen senses .
As the only requirement of CMBT , on top of the parallel data necessary for the training of the MT system , is a monolingual corpus and an off-the-shelf pretrained multilingual model , CMBT can be applied 1 .
SRC
For example , a wife learns that her husband put money in the bank in his name rather than in a joint account .
top -1 Der Abfluss bei einer ? berweisung erfolgt im Zeitpunkt der Abgabe des ? berweisungsauftrags an die Bank ... top-1 BT
The flow of a transfer is made when the contract is delivered to the bank ... top - 2 Osama und Yeslam bin Laden hatten von 1990 bis 1997 ein gemeinsames Konto bei der Schweizer Bank UBS .
top-2 BT Osama and Yeslam bin Laden shared an account at the Swiss Bank UBS between 1990 and 1997 .
2 . SRC
At this decisive moment in Dutch history my father was positioned on the bank of the river Waal near the city of Nijmegen .
top -1 Der Highway f?hrt n?rdlich am Stadtzentrum vorbei und gelangt von dort an das Ufer des Ontariosees .
top-1 BT
The Highway passes north of the center of the city and then reaches the bank of Lake Ontario .
top -2 Die Gro?stadt Pakokku liegt auf der n?rdlichen Uferseite [ bank?side ] des Irrawaddy 30 Kilometer nord ? stlich von Bagan ... top-2 BT
The big city of Pakokku is situated on the northern bank of Irrawaddy , 30 kilometres northeast of Bagan ...
Table 6 : Mining examples with XLM -R for two source sentences ( SRC ) containing the two senses ( financial and river ) of the word bank .
We show the 2 highest scoring candidates and their back - translations ( BT ) .
easily to other languages and MT systems in the future .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : The pipeline of CMBT .
Note that each step of the pipeline is run on the full corpus ( source side of MuCoW test set ) .
Here we just show the procedure on a single sentence as an illustration .
Table 1 : 1 Intrinsic and extrinsic evaluation in terms of acc@n and MuCoW F 1 scores .
The rare senses in sample - 10 are shown broken down by relative frequency bins , while we present results of missing senses in unseen .
The number of test cases in thousands per bin is shown in the third column ( # ) .
We compare the baseline and the improved MT systems with both BWEs and CMBT .
We indicate the improvements ( ? ) compared to the baseline .
5 baseline BWEs CMBT - 6.69 21.88 -13.51 25.39 17.14 35.32 34.80 ? 17.66 sample - 10 0-20 20-40 5.9 3.2 baseline BWEs CMBT baseline BWEs CMBT - 1.93 15.55 - 7.92 22.29 -4.18 26.34 47.02 ?
11.49 35.53 37.70 -60.98 19.78 60.80 37.34 64.49 ?
3.51
Table 2 : 2 Evaluation of all ( including frequent ) senses when using unseen or sample - 10 training sets .
Number of overall test cases are 25.3 K in both sets .
BLI results are the same for both training sets as they only affect the NMT system .
CMBT Arbeitende M?nner knieten am Ufer nieder und wuschen ihre blo?en Arme im Wasser .
REF Arbeiter kauerten am Ufer und wuschen sich die Arme in der Flut .
GLOSS river bank ; bench ; 3 . SRC
The physician , to whom the soldiers of the watch had carried him at the first moment ...
BASE Der Arzt , zu dem ihn die Soldaten der Uhr im ersten Augenblick getragen hatten ...
BWE Der Arzt , zu dem ihn die Soldaten der Uhr im ersten Augenblick getragen hatten ...
CMBT Der Arzt , zu dem ihn die Soldaten der Wache im ersten Augenblicke getragen hatten ...
REF Der Heilk ? nstler , zu welchem die Soldaten der Wache ihn im ersten Augenblicke getragen ...
GLOSS guard ; timepiece ; 4 . SRC
Try to avoid depressing the accelerator pedal beyond the pressure point ( kickdown ) .
BASE Versuche zu vermeiden , den Beschleuniger - Pedal ? ber den Druckpunkt hinaus zu deprimieren ( Kickdown ) .
BWE Versuche , den Beschleunigerpedal ? ber den Druckpunkt hinaus nicht zu deprimieren ( Kickdown ) .
CMBT Versuche , das Bremspedal ? ber den Druckpunkt hinaus nicht zu deprimieren ( Kickdown ) .
REF Treten Sie das Fahrpedal m?glichst nicht ? ber den Druckpunkt durch ( Kickdown ) .
GLOSS gas pedal ; brake pedal ; catalyst , ( particle ) accelerator ; 5 . SRC
A lover finds his mistress asleep on a mossy bank ; ...
BASE Ein Liebhaber findet seine Geliebte schlafend auf einer feuchten Bank ; ... BWE Ein Liebhaber findet seine Geliebte schlafend auf einem feuchten Bankett ; ... CMBT Ein Geliebter findet seine Geliebte schlafend auf einem feuchten Ufer ; ... REF Ein Liebender findet seine Geliebte auf einer moosigen Bank eingeschlafen ; ... GLOSS bench ; banquet ; river bank ; 6.SRC
I should like to deal with one concrete point , the question of the electronic counter .
BASE Ich m?chte auf einen konkreten Punkt eingehen , die Frage des elektronischen Gegensatzes .
BWE Ich m?chte mich mit einem konkreten Punkt befassen , der Frage des elektronischen Automaten .
CMBT
Ich m?chte auf einen konkreten Punkt eingehen , die Frage des elektronischen Z?hlers.REF
Eingehen m?chte ich auf einen konkreten Punkt , den Punkt der elektronischen Schalter .
GLOSS checkout counter ; contrast , opposition , difference ; vending machine ; electricity / energy meter ;
Table 5 : 5 Example sentences highlighting the multi-sense words and their translations .
For each source sentence ( SRC ) with given reference translation ( REF ) we compare the baseline ( BASE ) to the BWE and CMBT based systems .
Word senses ( GLOSS ) are color coded .
We used UDPipe ( Straka and Strakov ? , 2017 ) for POS tagging .
Note that BabelNet was also used to build the list of multisense words in MuCoW but its output was further refined with parallel data and gold WSD annotations .3
Top - 5 is common for bilingual lexicon induction .
Besides XLM -R , we experimented with mBERT ( Devlin et al. , 2017 ) as well but chose the former due to its superior word retrieval performance ( See the experiment 's results in Appendix A ) .
We increase the 200K limit used in most BLI works in order to cover more rare words .
6
https://github.com/moses-smt/ mosesdecoder/blob/master/scripts / tokenizer/tokenizer.perl
https://github.com/rsennrich/ subword-nmt
In comparison , it is not straightforward how we can add this information into a baseline NMT system where we cannot easily track translation for specific source words .
