title
Service-oriented Text-to-SQL Parsing
abstract
The information retrieval from relational database requires professionals who has an understanding of structural query language such as SQL .
TEXT2SQL models apply natural language inference to enable user interacting the database via natural language utterance .
Current TEXT2SQL models normally focus on generating complex SQL query in a precise and complete fashion while certain features of real-world application in the production environment is not fully addressed .
This paper is aimed to develop a service-oriented Text-to - SQL parser that translates natural language utterance to structural and executable SQL query .
We introduce a algorithmic framework named Semantic - Enriched SQL generator ( SE - SQL ) that enables flexibly access database than rigid API in the application while keeping the performance quality for the most commonly used cases .
The qualitative result shows that the proposed model achieves 88.3 % execution accuracy on WikiSQL task , outperforming baseline by 13 % error reduction .
Moreover , the framework considers several service-oriented needs including low-complexity inference , out -oftable rejection , and text normalization .
Introduction
The relational database stores a vast of information then support applications in various areas .
API and query language normally enforce access to this data .
To help retrieving information from database based on utterance , one conventional solution is applying Natural Language Understanding ( NLU ) model firstly to extract entities as attributes to call the downstream APIs .
The extracted entities fulfill the required slot in the pre-defined query templates to retrieve information from the database .
Such a rule-based mechanism ensures the input value at runtime while limiting the information retrieval in two major aspects .
First , the entity extraction might be constrained under closed domains .
It is challenging to apply one trained NLU model when the database is modified , e.g. , the new schema or new table .
Second , creating or modifying the query template requires numerous human labor and limits the requested query by fixed knowledge of API 's designer .
For example , as query the weekly average temperature via date range constraint and aggregation operation , users wo n't get the result if there is no such pre-defined query template in the scheme .
To address such issues , TEXT2SQL models ( Liang and Potts , 2015 ; Zhong et al. , 2017 ; Xu et al. , 2017 ; Dong and Lapata , 2018 ; Yu et al. , 2019 ; Dong et al. , 2019 ; Bogin et al. , 2019 ; Lee , 2019 ; Hwang et al. , 2019 ; Guo and Gao , 2019 ) are aimed to map natural language utterance to executable SQL query with or without the known database .
One example of TEXT2SQL task can be found in Table 1 .
This paper aims to develop a service-oriented Text-to - SQL parser translating natural language utterance to structural and executable SQL query without the limitation above .
We introduce an algorithmic framework named Semantic - Enriched SQL generator ( SE - SQL ) with the following key contributions :
Enable flexibly to access the database while keeping the performance quality for the most commonly used cases , such as SELECT , FROM , and WHERE , including aggregators and operators .
Therefore , the coverage of the primary query is supported .
Consider service- oriented needs , including lowcomplexity inference and confidence measure for quality when dealing with real-life scenarios .
Better user experience is obtained by improved algorithm performance from both questions by text normalization and schema by semantic enrichment .
Documents and codes can be found at : github.com/nicholasadam/SESQL .
Semantic-enriched SQL generator
For the natural language questions collected across users ' utterances and the table schema collected from the database , the proposed algorithmic framework processes such two types of data into SQL query , organized by context - aware Question Encoding Layer , semantic-enriched Table Schema Encoding Layer , out - of - table prediction layer , TEXT2SQL decoding layer , and SQL execution layer as shown in Figure 1 .
Question Encoding Layer
We leverage BERT as the language model ( Devlin et al. , 2018 ) for encoding the natural language question .
Each question input is encoded as : Q = [ CLS ] , q 1 , ... , q L , [ SEP ] E Q = BERT ( Q ) = E [ CLS ] , E q1 , ... , E q L , E [ SEP ] where q i is the i-th token of question Q , L is the total number of question tokens . [ CLS ] , [ SEP ] are special token used by BERT to indicate the start and end index of input .
E Q is the generated tokens ' embedding with the same length as Q. Given feature size S of embedding vector , the generated question embedding is a ( L , S ) - size matrix .
The output from the final two layers of BERT are concatenated and fed into TEXT2SQL layer .
Table Schema Encoding Layer Similar to question encoding , each table schema input is encoded as below .
H = [ CLS ] , h 1 , [ SEP ] , ... , h L , [ SEP ] E H = BERT ( H ) = E [ CLS ] , E h1 , E [ SEP ] , ... , E h L , E [ SEP ] where h j is the j-th token of table schema , L is the total number of schema tokens .
We use [ SEP ] to separate tokens in the schema .
Low-complexity implementation : Unlike conventional TEXT2SQL models ( Hwang et al. , 2019 ; Guo and Gao , 2019 ) , question and table schema are separately encoded for two reasons :
First , as BERT features contextual word representation , we generate question tokens only with its contextual information .
Second , as the question part is online fed into the encoder , separate encoding of the schema part can be done offline to reduce the inference time online greatly .
In reality , we have just one question to be encoded per request , while taking all encoded table schema into account .
Otherwise , we have to encode pairwise instance as many as the number of tables that makes the complexity higher .
Semantic enrichment :
Another key challenge is the alignment between user expression and schema expression towards the target object .
A user might ask a question flexibly while headers are designed based on a DBMS - neutral guide for naming common objects .
Here we enriched schema to reduce the mismatch condition via crawling alias and table contents for headers .
Then the language model and transformation network are applied to produce embedding sharing the same length as headers .
The final semantic representation of table schema is calculated as below .
E H SE = E H + E Hsynonyms + E Hcontent where E H SE is header 's embedding , E Hsynonyms is header synonyms embedding , E Hcontent is selected table content embedding .
Compared to existing content- enhance method ( Guo and Gao , 2019 ) , the leverage of contents is constrained as it cannot afford the copy of whole contents during inference for real-world solutions .
Moreover , semantic enrichment work can be pre-processing offline .
TEXT2SQL TEXT2SQL layer is designed on top of question and schema encoding layers .
Xu et al .
( Xu et al. , 2017 ) where agg , scol represent aggregator and header in SELECT clause , wcol / op / val represent header , operator , and value in WHERE clause respectively .
< FROM > clause : Towards a real-world application , out - of - table rejection is required to recognize the table in backend database for the question input .
One nonparametric model is introduced on top of question embedding E Q and schema embedding E H via cosine distance measurement .
We calculate the similarity between question E q i and schema E H .
Then we conduct minimum pooling along dimension j and take average value as the overall similarity from question to schema .
Distance i?>H = minpooling j S E qi E hj / E 2 qi / E 2 hj Distance Q?>H = L Q Distance i?>H /L
Q where minpooling j samples the minimum value along dimension j .
The similarity from schema to question is calculated using the same method to get Distance H?>Q .
By adding two normalized distances to represent the pairwise similarity score , we reject the prediction if the score is lower than the threshold R threshold .
Distance Q<?>H = Distance H?>Q + Distance Q?>H Reject = Distance Q<?>H > R threshold < SELECT > and < WHERE > clause : Tasks are to predict column ( s ) from schema headers and corresponding aggregator ( s ) / operator ( s ) / value ( s ) tied to column ( s ) .
Column prediction predicts column ( s ) via attention and Learn-To - Rank method . s( q|h ) = E T h W E q ; p( q|h ) = sof tmax ( s ( q | h ) ) H h = N i p( q | h ) E q sc h = maxpooling ( [ E h ? W H h ] ) ; p h = sigmoid( sc h ) where W is the required transformation , H h is context vector of header h , sc h is column score , [ ; ] denotes concatenation operation , maxpooling samples max value , and p h is the probability of selecting header h .
We choose the top k header ( s ) among candidates by predicting number of columns k. k = argmax ( sof tmax ( E Q , CLS W ) )
Agg / Op prediction predicts aggregator and operator tied to SELECT - column and WHERE - column , respectively .
p z = W tanh ( [ E q ; W sc h ) ; z = argmax ( p z ) where z is the z-th aggregator / operator .
Value parsing predicts start and end token index from question for the given header and operator op .
idx = argmax ( sof tmax ( W E q sc h V op ) ) where V op is the one-hot vector of operation choice .
Text Normalization
After predicting the start and end index of parsed value , we conduct the named entity normalization to generate a regularized representation for objects such as time and range during the inference .
As we found in the real application scenario , the WHERE - value parser contributes considerable amounts of " no result found " cases , although the other sub-modules have the correct prediction .
Datetime range is one of the most happened entities in utterances .
An un-normalized parsing might lead to a null result .
Therefore , we leverage the named entity recognition enabler to parse normalized WHERE - value .
For example , " till ( date ) " will be translated to " WHEREcolumn ( date ) WHERE - operator ( < =) WHEREvalue ( YYYY - MM - DD ) " .
Experiments and Results Experiment Setup
As motivated by developing a service-oriented solution , we determine the benchmark dataset based on the following criteria .
First , the benchmark task should meet the basic requirement of real- world TEXT2SQL application , e.g. , Spider ( Yu et al. , 2018 ) and WikiSQL ( Zhong et al. , 2017 ) .
Second , the numbers of questiontable - query instances should be large enough to ensure the generality of the model .
Third , the generated SQL should cover the potential sessions in the production environment , while high complexity parser might introduce the processing latency in real-world inference procedures .
Here we train and evaluate our models on WikiSQL ver .
1.1 that was firstly introduced by Zhong et al .
( Zhong et al. , 2017 ) .
WikiSQL contains a large corpus of question - table - SQL instances from Wikipedia , then divided into train ( 55 k instances ) , dev ( 8 k instances ) , and test sets ( 16 k instances ) .
We applied a negative sampling method to create the sub-dataset for out - of - ( Devlin et al. , 2018 ) . NLTK library ( Loper and Bird , 2002 ) is applied to generate synonyms of headers in the table schema .
Set R threshold as 1.1 and negative sampling size as 11 to do out - of-table rejection .
Meanwhile , the beam search method considered an execution guide for the generated query , although widely applied for NLI evaluation , was not used due to maintaining the low communication and processing latency between application and database .
Therefore , the reported performance can be treated as the lower - bound one .
Meanwhile , after reviewing the open-sourced TEXT2SQL literature , we selected one of the state - of - the - art models named " SQLova " ( Hwang et al. , 2019 ) as the baseline .
The author claims that SQLova is the first natural - language - to - SQL model to achieve human performance in the WikiSQL task .
Qualitative performance
The result shows that SE - SQL outperforms the baseline by a promising margin , as shown in Table 2 .
Moreover , to understand the performance of SE - SQL in detail , the breakdown accuracy of each sub-module under the logical form metric was shown in Appendix .
The result indicates that the proposed framework shows a promising potential of being a TEXT2SQL solution in terms of model performance .
Out - of-table rejection
Regarding confidence measure in from-clause prediction , the proposed nonparametric prediction model achieved 85 % true positive , 55 % true negative , 6 % false positive , and 6 % false negative .
When having rejection enabled , it rejected 9 % cases .
Among the 91 % accepted cases , accuracy is improved from the original 85 % to 87 % .
Moreover , the setting of the threshold offers the opportunity to adjust the performance .
Semantic enrichment
As shown in
Conclusion
In this paper , we proposed a novel algorithmic framework named SE - SQL that not only enables access database flexibly while keeping the performance quality for the most commonly used cases but more importantly offer the solution towards meeting product requirement from the lab research .
We reconstructed the previous TEXT2SQL framework to introduce question - table separate contextualization in a low-complexity fashion .
An improved algorithm performance obtains better user experience that the proposed model outperforms the baseline by a 13 % error reduction in the Wik-iSQL task .
Moreover , the properties , including out - of- table rejection , confidence measurement for quality , and fast online inference , are considered toward the production environment .
Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1 : Algorithm Framework - High level
