title


abstract


All in all, RL allows us to build a uni ed dialogue system, however, it often requires the agent to train in an interactive environment with real users across multiple domains. In practice, agents are rst train using machine learning methods before continuous learning through RL. 

 The transition of NLP to Neural Approaches The  3. Present both supervised and reinforcement learning to train SOTA dialogue agents 4. Draw out the conversational systems that are developed in both the research community and the industry, highlighting the progress and challenges of existing conversational systems 3 types of problems in Conversational AI (2 categories) 1. QA (task-oriented). Using multiple data sources, the agent need to provide a direct and accurate answers to user queries (Turn 3 -5) 2. Task Completion (task-oriented). The agent is required to perform a speci c task like reservation, or scheduling a meeting (Turn 6 -7) 3. Social Chat (chitchat). Provide smooth interactions with the user (Turn 1 -2) The typical architecture Typically, task-oriented conversational AI has 4 main components: 1. Natural Language Understanding. Understanding the user's intent and extracting additional information 2. State Tracker. Tracking the state of the conversation and all essential information 3. Dialog Policy. Determine what's the next action based on the current state ? ? 21/02/2022, 21:14 Day 127: NLP Papers Summary -Neural Approaches to Conversational AI -Introduction -Ryan Ong https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/06/day-127-nlp-papers-summary-neural-approaches-to-conversational-ai-introduction/ 3/8 4. Natural Language Generation. Converting agent actions / results into natural language responses The gure below showcase the 4 components in a task-oriented conversational AI and how recent work has been using deep neural network to combine all these components together, developing a fully data-driven system. Task-oriented agents have access to external database whereas social chatbots do not since they aren't required to use external sources to complete a speci c task. Therefore, social chatbots are usually trained using human-to-human conversational data. However, recent work has begun to explore how to connect chitchat using world knowledge and images to make the conversation more contentful and interesting. A Uni ed View: Dialogue as Optimal Decision Making The idea behind a uni ed view for conversational AI is that conversations can be viewed as a decision making process whereby there's a natural hierarchy of top-level process to select which agent we should use to solve a particular subtask (the 3 types of problems) and lowlevel process, where the selected agent performs actions to complete the subtask. This can be formulated using Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) and both top-and low-level processes can be captured using the reinforcement learning (RL) framework. The agent would navigate in a Papers Summary -Neural Approaches to Conversational AI -Introduction -Ryan Ong https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/06/day-127-nlp-papers-summary-neural-approaches-to-conversational-ai-introduction/ 4/8 MDP, where by at each step, the agent would observes the current state and choose an action based on the dialog policy. The agent then receives a reward and observes a new state, repeating the cycle until the end. The objective of the agent is to nd optimal policies that maximise the expected rewards. The table below showcase this uni ed view of RL, where state-action space is map to different reward functions. Two large-scale open-domain dialogue systems have already been developed with this uni ed view in mind: Sounding Board and Microsoft XiaoIce. The reward functions in the table above seems contradictory in terms of CPS between task-oriented and chitchat. Microsoft XiaoIce is optimised for expected CPS meaning it is optimised for maximising long-term engagement. 

 development of neural methods means that we are relying less and less on human engineered features. Neural methods in machine reading comprehension (MRC) and dialogue usually consists of three steps as shown below: 1. Encoding user input and knowledge into neural semantic representations (embeddings) 2. Reasoning in the neural space to generate answer vector 3. Decoding the neural response into natural language output in the symbolic space ? 21/02/2022, 21:14 Day 127: NLP Papers Summary -Neural Approaches to Conversational AI -Introduction -Ryan Ong https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/06/day-127-nlp-papers-summary-neural-approaches-to-conversational-ai-introduction-end training has yielded many SOTA results in conversational AI, however, they are often weak in execution ef ciency and interpretability, whereas symbolic traditional approaches are the opposite. Existing works have been to develop a hybrid methods of the two, to capture the strengths of both neural and symbolic methods. NLP Papers Summary -Neural Approaches to Conversational AI -Introduction -Ryan Ong https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/06/day-127-nlp-papers-summary-neural-approaches-to-conversational-ai-introduction/ 6
