title
Notes for "Towards AI-Complete Question Answering: A Set of Prerequisite Toy Tasks" Paper shagunsodhani / bAbI.md

abstract


Introduction The paper presents a framework and a set of synthetic toy tasks (classified into skill sets) for analyzing the performance of different machine learning algorithms. 

 Tasks Single/Two/Three Supporting Facts: Questions where a single(or multiple) supporting facts provide the answer. More is the number of supporting facts, tougher is the task. Two/Three Supporting Facts: Requires differentiation between objects and subjects.  

 Yes/No 

 Dataset The dataset is available here the source code to generate the tasks is available here. The different tasks are independent of each other. For supervised training, the set of relevant statements is provided along with questions and answers. The tasks are available in English, Hindi and shuffled English words. 

 Data Simulation Simulated world consists of entities of various types (locations, objects, persons etc) and of various actions that operate on these entities. These entities have their internal state and follow certain rules as to how they interact with other entities. Basic simulations are of the form: eg Bob go school. To add variations, synonyms are used for entities and actions. 

 Experiments Methods 

 N-gram classifier baseline 

 LSTMs Memory Networks (MemNNs) Structured SVM incorporating externally labeled data 

 Extensions to Memory Networks Adaptive Memories -learn the number of hops to be performed instead of using the fixed value of 2 hops. N-grams -Use a bag of 3-grams instead of a bag-of-words. Nonlinearity -Apply 2-layer neural network with tanh nonlinearity in the matching function. 

 Structured SVM Uses coreference resolution and semantic role labeling (SRL) which are themselves trained on a large amount of data. First train with strong supervision to find supporting statements and then use a similar SVM to find the response.  

 Results Standard MemNN outperform N-gram and LSTM but still fail on a number of tasks. MemNNs with Adaptive Memory improve the performance multiple supporting facts task and basic induction task. MemNNs with N-gram modeling improves results when word order matters. MemNNs with Nonlinearity performs well on Yes/No tasks and indefinite knowledge tasks. Structured SVM outperforms vanilla MemNNs but not as good as MemNNs with modifications. Structured SVM performs very well on path finding task due to its non-greedy search approach. Questions: True/False questions. Counting/List/Set Questions: Requires ability to count or list objects having a certain property. Simple Negation and Indefinite Knowledge: Tests the ability to handle negation constructs and model sentences that describe a possibility and not a certainty. Basic Coreference, Conjunctions, and Compound Coreference: Requires ability to handle different levels of coreference. Time Reasoning: Requires understanding the use of time expressions in sentences. Basic Deduction and Induction: Tests basic deduction and induction via inheritance of properties. Position and Size Reasoning Path Finding: Find path between locations. Agent's Motivation: Why an agent performs an action ie what is the state of the agent. 21/02/2022, 21:13 Notes for "Towards AI-Complete Question Answering: A Set of Prerequisite Toy Tasks" Paper https://gist.github.com/shagunsodhani/12691b76addf149a224c24ab64b5bdcc 2/3
