title
abstract
By Ryan 7th May 2020 No Comments Day 128 : NLP Papers Summary - Neural Approaches To Conversational AI -KB -QA ( Symbolic Methods ) Conversational QA system has become very popular in recent years and many techniques have been explored to build a good reliable QA system .
Most QA systems allow users to either query from a knowledge base ( KB - QA ) or from a collection of documents ( text - QA ) .
We will rst review the KB - QA space , both symbolic and neural methods and then the text - QA space .
In terms of KB - QA space , we will go over the symbolic methods in this blog post and then the neural methods in tomorrow 's post .
We will rst review symbolic approaches in KB - QA and showcase some of its limitations including scalability .
We will then review different neural methods that have been proposed to address these issues .
We will also be discussing multiturn and conversational KB - QA agents which are not as well -studied .
What is a Knowledge Base ?
A standard KB is a structured database that stores all the different entities and relationships in the form of subject - predicate - object triplets ( s , r , t ) .
In this case , s and t are the entities and r is the relation between the two entities .
KB can be represented in the form of a knowledge graph as shown below , where entities are the nodes and relations are the directed edges .
Semantic Parsing for KB - QA ? Natural Language Processing 365 ? ? ? ? ? ? ? 21/02/2022 , 21:14 Day 128 : NLP Papers Summary - Neural Approaches to Conversational AI -KB -QA ( Symbolic Methods ) - Ry ?
https://ryanong.co.uk/2020/05/07/day-128-nlp-papers-summary-neural-approaches-to-conversational-ai-kb-qa-symbolic-methods/ 2/5
Figure Figure above ( on the right ) showcase semantic parsing for KB - QA , which it 's the core of many symbolic methods SOTA KB - QA systems .
Questions are mapped to its formal meaning representations ( logic form ) and its equivalent graph representation ( query graph ) , before it 's feed into the KB .
Reasoning will then happen within the KB through nding a sequence of paths hat match the query and retrieve the end nodes .
