title
Evolutionary Hierarchical Dirichlet Process for Timeline Summarization

abstract
Timeline summarization aims at generating concise summaries and giving readers a faster and better access to understand the evolution of news. It is a new challenge which combines salience ranking problem with novelty detection. Previous researches in this field seldom explore the evolutionary pattern of topics such as birth, splitting, merging, developing and death. In this paper, we develop a novel model called Evolutionary Hierarchical Dirichlet Process(EHDP) to capture the topic evolution pattern in timeline summarization. In EHDP, time varying information is formulated as a series of HDPs by considering time-dependent information. Experiments on 6 different datasets which contain 3156 documents demonstrates the good performance of our system with regard to ROUGE scores.

Introduction Faced with thousands of news articles, people usually try to ask the general aspects such as the beginning, the evolutionary pattern and the end. General search engines simply return the top ranking articles according to query relevance and fail to trace how a specific event goes. Timeline summarization, which aims at generating a series of concise summaries for news collection published at different epochs can give readers a faster and better access to understand the evolution of news. The key of timeline summarization is how to select sentences which can tell readers the evolutionary pattern of topics in the event. It is very common that the themes of a corpus evolve over time, and topics of adjacent epochs usually exhibit strong correlations. Thus, it is important to model topics across different documents and over different time periods to detect how the events evolve. The task of timelime summarization is firstly proposed by  Allan et al.(2001)  by extracting clusters of noun phases and name entities.  Chieu et al.(2004)  built a similar system in unit of sentences with interest and burstiness. However, these methods seldom explored the evolutionary characteristics of news. Recently,  Yan et al.(2011)  extended the graph based sentence ranking algorithm used in traditional multi-document summarization (MDS) to timeline generation by projecting sentences from different time into one plane. They further explored the timeline task from the optimization of a function considering the combination of different respects such as relevance, coverage, coherence and diversity  (Yan et al., 2011b) . However, their approaches just treat timeline generation as a sentence ranking or optimization problem and seldom explore the topic information lied in the corpus. Recently, topic models have been widely used for capturing the dynamics of topics via time. Many dynamic approaches based on LDA model  (Blei et al., 2003)  or Hierarchical Dirichelt Processes(HDP)  (Teh et al., 2006)  have been proposed to discover the evolving patterns in the corpus as well as the snapshot clusters at each time epoch  (Blei and Lafferty, 2006; Chakrabarti et al., 2006; Wang and McCallum, 2007; Caron et al., 2007; Ren et al., 2008; Ahmed and Xing, 2008; Zhang et al., 2010) . In this paper, we propose EHDP: a evolutionary hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP) model for timeline summarization. In EHDP, each HDP is built for multiple corpora at each time epoch, and the time dependencies are incorporated into epochs under the Markovian assumptions. Topic popularity and topic-word distribution can be inferred from a Chinese Restaurant Process (CRP). Sentences are selected into timelines by considering different aspects such as topic relevance, coverage and coherence. We built the evaluation sys-tems which contain 6 real datasets and performance of different models is evaluated according to the ROUGE metrics. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our model . 

 EHDP for Timeline Summarization 

 Problem Formulation Given a general query Q = {w qi } i=Qn i=1 , we firstly obtain a set of query related documents. We notate different corpus as C = {C t } t=T t=1 according to their published time where C t = {D ti } i=Nt i=1 denotes the document collection published at epoch t. Document D t i is formulated as a collection of sentences {s t ij } j=N ti j=1 . Each sentence is presented with a series of words s t ij = {w t ijl } l=N t ij l=1 and associated with a topic ? t ij . V denotes the vocabulary size. The output of the algorithm is a series of timelines summarization I = {I t } t=T t=1 where I t ? C t 

 EHDP Our EHDP model is illustrated in Figure  2 . Specifically, each corpus C t is modeled as a HDP. These HDP shares an identical base measure G 0 , which serves as an overall bookkeeping of overall measures. We use G t 0 to denote the base measure at each epoch and draw the local measure G t i for each document at time t from G t 0 . In EHDP, each sentence is assigned to an aspect ? t ij with the consideration of words within current sentence. To consider time dependency information in EHDP, we link all time specific base measures G t 0 with a temporal Dirichlet mixture model as follows: G t 0 ? DP (? t , 1 K G 0 + 1 K ? ?=0 F (v, ?)?G t? 0 ) (1) where F (v, ?) = exp(?/v) denotes the exponential kernel function that controls the influence of neighboring corpus. K denotes the normalization factor where K = 1 + ? ?=0 F (v, ?). ? is the time width and ? is the decay factor. In Chinese Restaurant Process (CRP), each document is referred to a restaurant and sentences are compared to customers. Customers in the restaurant sit around different tables and each table b t in is associated with a dish (topic) ? t in according to the dish menu. Let m tk denote the number of tables enjoying dish k in all restaurants at epoch t,   m tk = N t i=1 N t ib n=1 1(? t in = k). We redefine for each epoch t ? [1, T ] 1. draw global measure G t 0 ? DP (?, 1 K G0 + 1 K ? ?=0 F (v, ?)G t? 0 ) 2. for each document D t i at epoch t, 2.1 draw local measure G t i ? DP (?, G t 0 ) 2.2 for each sentence s t ij in D t i draw aspect ? t ij ? G t i for w ? s t ij draw w ? f (w)|? t ij M tk = ? ?=0 F (v, ?) ? m t?,k (2) n t i ? 1 + ? ? ? jb + ? n t i ? 1 + ? ? ? new jb ? new ti |?, ? ? k M tk i M ti + ? ? ? k + ? i M ti + ? G 0 (3) We can see that EHDP degenerates into a series of independent HDPs when ? = 0 and one global HDP when ? = T and v = ?, as discussed in Amred and Xings work (2008). 

 Sentence Selection Strategy The task of timeline summarization aims to produce a summary for each time and the generated summary should meet criteria such as relevance , coverage and coherence  (Li et al., 2009) . To care for these three criteria, we propose a topic scoring algorithm based on Kullback-Leibler(KL) divergence. We introduce the decreasing logistic function ?(x) = 1/(1 + e x ) to map the distance into interval (0,1). Relevance: the summary should be related with the proposed query Q. F R (I t ) = ?(KL(I t ||Q)) Coverage: the summary should highly generalize important topics mentioned in document collection at epoch t. F Cv (I t ) = ?(KL(I t ||C t )) Coherence: News evolves over time and a good component summary is coherent with neighboring corpus so that a timeline tracks the gradual evolution trajectory for multiple correlative news. F Ch (I t ) = ?=?/2 ?=?/2 F (v, ?) ? ?(KL(I t ||C t? )) ?=?/2 ?=?/2 F (v, ?) Let Score(I t ) denote the score of the summary and it is calculated in Equ.(4). 

 Score(I t ) = ? 1 F R (I t )+? 2 F Cv (I t )+? 3 F C h (I t ) (4) i ? i = 1. Sentences with higher score are selected into timeline. To avoid aspect redundancy, MMR strategy  (Goldstein et al., 1999 ) is adopted in the process of sentence selection. 

 Experiments 

 Experiments set-up We downloaded 3156 news articles from selected sources such as BBC, New York Times and CNN with various time spans and built the evaluation systems which contains 6 real datasets. The news belongs to different categories of Rule of Interpretation (ROI)  (Kumaran and Allan, 2004)   Summaries produced by baseline systems and ours are automatically evaluated through ROUGE evaluation metrics  (Lin and Hovy, 2003) . For the space limit, we only report three ROUGE ROUGE-2-F and ROUGE-W-F score. Reference timeline in ROUGE evaluation is manually generated by using Amazon Mechanical Turk 1 . Workers were asked to generate reference timeline for news at each epoch in less than 50 words and we collect 790 timelines in total. 

 Parameter Tuning To tune the parameters ?(i = 1, 2, 3) and v in our system, we adopt a gradient search strategy. We firstly fix ? i to 1/3. Then we perform experiments on with setting different values of v/#epoch in the range from 0.02 to 0.2 at the interval of 0.02. We find that the Rouge score reaches its peak at round 0.1 and drops afterwards in the experiments. Next, we set the value of v is set to 0.1 ? #epoch and gradually change the value of ? 1 from 0 to 1 with interval of 0.05, with simultaneously fixing ? 2 and ? 3 to the same value of (1 ? ? 1 )/2. The performance gets better as ? 1 increases from 0 to 0.25 and then declines. Then we set the value of ? 1 to 0.25 and change the value of ? 2 from 0 to 0.75 with interval of 0.05. And the value of ? 2 is set to 0.4, and ? 3 is set to 0.35 correspondingly. 

 Comparison with other topic models In this subsection, we compare our model with 4 topic model baselines on the test data. Stand-HDP(1): A topic approach that models different time epochs as a series of independent HDPs without considering time dependency. Stand-HDP(2):  

 Comparison with other baselines We implement several baselines used in traditional summarization or timeline summarization for comparison. (1) Centroid applies the MEAD algorithm  (Radev et al., 2004)  according to the features including centroid value, position and first-sentence overlap. (2) M anif old is a graph based unsupervised method for summarization, and the score of each sentence is got from the propagation through the graph  (Wan et al., 2007) . (3) ET S is the timeline summarization approach developed by  Yan et al., (2011a) , which is a graph based approach with optimized global and local biased summarization. (4) Chieu is the timeline system provided by  (Chieu and Lee, 2004)  utilizing interest and bursty ranking but neglecting trans-temporal news evolution. As we can see from Table  3 , Centroid and M anif old get the worst results. This is probably because methods in multi-document summarization only care 2 In our experiments, the aspect number is set as 50, 80, 100 and 120 respectively and we select the best performed result with the aspect number as 80 about sentence selection and neglect the novelty detection task. We can also see that EHDP under our proposed framework outputs existing timeline summarization approaches ETS and chieu. Our approach outputs  Yan et al.,(2011a) s model by 6.9% and 9.3% respectively with regard to the average score of ROUGE-2-F and ROUGE-W-F. 

 Conclusion In this paper we present an evolutionary HDP model for timeline summarization. Our EHDP extends original HDP by incorporating time dependencies and background information. We also develop an effective sentence selection strategy for candidate in the summaries. Experimental results on real multi-time news demonstrate the effectiveness of our topic model.  Oct. 3, 2012 S1:  The first debate between President Obama and Mitt Romney, so long anticipated, quickly sunk into an unenlightening recitation of tired talking points and mendacity. S2. Mr. Romney wants to restore the Bush-era tax cut that expires at the end of this year and largely benefits the wealthy Oct. 11, 2012 S1: The vice presidential debate took place on Thursday, October 11 at Kentucky'sCentre College, and was moderated by Martha Raddatz. S2: The first and only debate between Vice President Joe Biden and Congressman Paul Ryan focused on domestic and foreign policy. The domestic policy segments included questions on health care, abortion Oct. 16, 2012 S1. President Obama fights back in his second debate with Mitt Romney, banishing some of the doubts he raised in their first showdown. S2: The second debate dealt primarily with domestic affairs and include some segues into foreign policy. including taxes, unemployment, job creation, the national debt, energy and women's rights, both legal and  Figure 1 : 1 Figure 1: Generation process for EHDP 
