title
A Simple Theoretical Model of Importance for Summarization

abstract
Research on summarization has mainly been driven by empirical approaches, crafting systems to perform well on standard datasets with the notion of information Importance remaining latent. We argue that establishing theoretical models of Importance will advance our understanding of the task and help to further improve summarization systems. To this end, we propose simple but rigorous definitions of several concepts that were previously used only intuitively in summarization: Redundancy, Relevance, and Informativeness. Importance arises as a single quantity naturally unifying these concepts. Additionally, we provide intuitions to interpret the proposed quantities and experiments to demonstrate the potential of the framework to inform and guide subsequent works.

Introduction Summarization is the process of identifying the most important information from a source to produce a comprehensive output for a particular user and task  (Mani, 1999) . While producing readable outputs is a problem shared with the field of Natural Language Generation, the core challenge of summarization is the identification and selection of important information. The task definition is rather intuitive but involves vague and undefined terms such as Importance and Information. Since the seminal work of  Luhn (1958) , automatic text summarization research has focused on empirical developments, crafting summarization systems to perform well on standard datasets leaving the formal definitions of Importance latent  (Das and Martins, 2010; Nenkova and McKeown, 2012) . This view entails collecting datasets, defining evaluation metrics and iteratively selecting the best-performing systems either via super-vised learning or via repeated comparison of unsupervised systems  (Yao et al., 2017) . Such solely empirical approaches may lack guidance as they are often not motivated by more general theoretical frameworks. While these approaches have facilitated the development of practical solutions, they only identify signals correlating with the vague human intuition of Importance. For instance, structural features like centrality and repetitions are still among the most used proxies for Importance  (Yao et al., 2017; Kedzie et al., 2018) . However, such features just correlate with Importance in standard datasets. Unsurprisingly, simple adversarial attacks reveal their weaknesses  (Zopf et al., 2016) . We postulate that theoretical models of Importance are beneficial to organize research and guide future empirical works. Hence, in this work, we propose a simple definition of information importance within an abstract theoretical framework. This requires the notion of information, which has received a lot of attention since the work from  Shannon (1948)  in the context of communication theory. Information theory provides the means to rigorously discuss the abstract concept of information, which seems particularly well suited as an entry point for a theory of summarization. However, information theory concentrates on uncertainty (entropy) about which message was chosen from a set of possible messages, ignoring the semantics of messages  (Shannon, 1948 ). Yet, summarization is a lossy semantic compression depending on background knowledge. In order to apply information theory to summarization, we assume texts are represented by probability distributions over so-called semantic units  (Bao et al., 2011) . This view is compatible with the common distributional embedding representation of texts rendering the presented framework applicable in practice. When applied to semantic symbols, the tools of information theory indirectly operate at the semantic level  (Carnap and Bar-Hillel, 1953; Zhong, 2017) . 

 Contributions: ? We define several concepts intuitively connected to summarization: Redundancy, Relevance and Informativeness. These concepts have been used extensively in previous summarization works and we discuss along the way how our framework generalizes them. ? From these definitions, we formulate properties required from a useful notion of Importance as the quantity unifying these concepts. We provide intuitions to interpret the proposed quantities. ? Experiments show that, even under simplifying assumptions, these quantities correlates well with human judgments making the framework promising in order to guide future empirical works. 

 Framework 

 Terminology and Assumptions We call semantic unit an atomic piece of information  (Zhong, 2017; Cruse, 1986) . We note ? the set of all possible semantic units. A text X is considered as a semantic source emitting semantic units as envisioned by  Weaver (1953)  and discussed by  Bao et al. (2011) . Hence, we assume that X can be represented by a probability distribution P X over the semantic units ?. 

 Possible interpretations: One can interpret P X as the frequency distribution of semantic units in the text. Alternatively, P X (? i ) can be seen as the (normalized) likelihood that a text X entails an atomic information ? i  (Carnap and Bar-Hillel, 1953) . Another interpretation is to view P X (? i ) as the normalized contribution (utility) of ? i to the overall meaning of X  (Zhong, 2017) . 

 Motivation for semantic units: In general, existing semantic information theories either postulate or imply the existence of semantic units  (Carnap and Bar-Hillel, 1953; Bao et al., 2011; Zhong, 2017) . For example, the Theory of Strongly Semantic Information produced by  Floridi (2009)  implies the existence of semantic units (called information units in his work).  Building on this, Tsvetkov (2014)  argued that the original theory of Shannon can operate at the semantic level by relying on semantic units. In particular, existing semantic information theories imply the existence of semantic units in formal semantics  (Carnap and Bar-Hillel, 1953) , which treat natural languages as formal languages  (Montague, 1970) . In general, lexical semantics  (Cruse, 1986 ) also postulates the existence of elementary constituents called minimal semantic constituents. For instance, with frame semantics  (Fillmore, 1976) , frames can act as semantic units. Recently, distributional semantics approaches have received a lot of attention  (Turian et al., 2010; Mikolov et al., 2013b) . They are based on the distributional hypothesis  (Harris, 1954)  and the assumption that meaning can be encoded in a vector space  (Turney and Pantel, 2010; Erk, 2010) . These approaches also search latent and independent components that underlie the behavior of words  (G?bor et al., 2017; Mikolov et al., 2013a) . While different approaches to semantics postulate different basic units and different properties for them, they have in common that meaning arises from a set of independent and discrete units. Thus, the semantic units assumption is general and has minimal commitment to the actual nature of semantics. This makes the framework compatible with most existing semantic representation approaches. Each approach specifies these units and can be plugged in the framework, e.g., frame semantics would define units as frames, topic models  (Allahyari et al., 2017)  would define units as topics and distributional representations would define units as dimensions of a vector space. In the following paragraphs, we represent the source document(s) D and a candidate summary S by their respective distributions P D and P S . 1 

 Redundancy Intuitively, a summary should contain a lot of information. In information-theoretic terms, the amount of information is measured by Shannon's entropy. For a summary S represented by P S : H(S) = ? ? i P S (? i ) ? log(P S (? i )) (1) H(S) is maximized for a uniform probability distribution when every semantic unit is present only once in S: ?(i, j), P S (? i ) = P S (? j ). Therefore, we define Redundancy, our first quantity relevant to summarization, via entropy: Red(S) = H max ? H(S) (2) Since H max = log |?| is a constant indepedent of S, we can simply write: Red(S) = ?H(S). 

 Redundancy in Previous Works: By definition, entropy encompasses the notion of maximum coverage. Low redundancy via maximum coverage is the main idea behind the use of submodularity  (Lin and Bilmes, 2011) . Submodular functions are generalizations of coverage functions which can be optimized greedily with guarantees that the result would not be far from optimal  (Fujishige, 2005) . Thus, they have been used extensively in summarization  (Sipos et al., 2012; Yogatama et al., 2015) . Otherwise, low redundancy is usually enforced during the extraction/generation procedures like MMR  (Carbonell and Goldstein, 1998) . 

 Relevance Intuitively, observing a summary should reduce our uncertainty about the original text. A summary approximates the original source(s) and this approximation should incur a minimum loss of information. This property is usually called Relevance. Here, estimating Relevance boils down to comparing the distributions P S and P D , which is done via the cross-entropy Rel(S, D) = ?CE(S, D): Rel(S, D) = ? i P S (? i ) ? log(P D (? i )) (3) The cross-entropy is interpreted as the average surprise of observing S while expecting D. A summary with a low expected surprise produces a low uncertainty about what were the original sources. This is achieved by exhibiting a distribution of semantic units similar to the one of the source documents: P S ? P D . Furthermore, we observe the following connection with Redundancy: KL(S||D) = CE(S, D) ? H(S) ?KL(S||D) = Rel(S, D) ? Red(S) (4) KL divergence is the information loss incurred by using D as an approximation of S (i.e., the uncertainty about D arising from observing S instead of D). A summarizer that minimizes the KL divergence minimizes Redundancy while maximizing Relevance. In fact, this is an instance of the Kullback Minimum Description Principle (MDI)  (Kullback and Leibler, 1951) , a generalization of the Maximum Entropy Principle  (Jaynes, 1957) : the summary minimizing the KL divergence is the least biased (i.e., least redundant or with highest entropy) summary matching D. In other words, this summary fits D while inducing a minimum amount of new information. Indeed, any new information is necessarily biased since it does not arise from observations in the sources. The MDI principle and KL divergence unify Redundancy and Relevance. 

 Relevance in Previous Works: Relevance is the most heavily studied aspect of summarization. In fact, by design, most unsupervised systems model Relevance. Usually, they used the idea of topical frequency where the most frequent topics from the sources must be extracted. Then, different notions of topics and counting heuristics have been proposed. We briefly discuss these developments here.  Luhn (1958)  introduced the simple but influential idea that sentences containing the most important words are most likely to embody the original document. Later,  Nenkova et al. (2006)  showed experimentally that humans tend to use words appearing frequently in the sources to produce their summaries. Then,  Vanderwende et al. (2007)  developed the system SumBasic, which scores each sentence by the average probability of its words. The same ideas can be generalized to n-grams. A prominent example is the ICSI system  (Gillick and Favre, 2009)  which extracts frequent bigrams. Despite being rather simple, ICSI produces strong and still close to state-of-the-art summaries  (Hong et al., 2014) . Different but similar words may refer to the same topic and should not be counted separately. This observation gave rise to a set of important techniques based on topic models  (Allahyari et al., 2017) . These approaches cover sentence clustering  (McKeown et al., 1999; Radev et al., 2000; Zhang et al., 2015) , lexical chains  (Barzilay and Elhadad, 1999) , Latent Semantic Analysis  (Deerwester et al., 1990)  or Latent Dirichlet Allocation  (Blei et al., 2003)  adapted to summarization  (Hachey et al., 2006; Daum? III and Marcu, 2006; Wang et al., 2009; Davis et al., 2012) . Approaches like hLDA can exploit repetitions both at the word and at the sentence level  (Celikyilmaz and Hakkani-Tur, 2010) . Graph-based methods form another particularly powerful class of techniques to estimate the frequency of topics, e.g., via the notion of centrality  (Mani and Bloedorn, 1997; Mihalcea and Tarau, 2004; Erkan and Radev, 2004) . A significant body of research was dedicated to tweak and improve various components of graph-based approaches. For example, one can investigate different similarity measures  (Chali and Joty, 2008) . Also, different weighting schemes between sentences have been investigated  (Leskovec et al., 2005; Wan and Yang, 2006) . Therefore, in existing approaches, the topics (i.e., atomic units) were words, n-grams, sentences or combinations of these. The general idea of preferring frequent topics based on various counting heuristics is formalized by cross-entropy. Indeed, requiring the summary to minimize the crossentropy with the source documents implies that frequent topics in the sources should be extracted first. An interesting line of work is based on the assumption that the best sentences are the ones that permit the best reconstruction of the input documents  (He et al., 2012) . It was refined by a stream of works using distributional similarities  (Li et al., 2015; Ma et al., 2016) . There, the atomic units are the dimensions of the vector spaces. This information bottleneck idea is also neatly captured by the notion of cross-entropy which is a measure of information loss. Alternatively,  (Daum? and Marcu, 2002)  viewed summarization as a noisy communication channel which is also rooted in information theory ideas.  (Wilson and Sperber, 2008)  provide a more general and less formal discussion of relevance in the context of Relevance Theory  (Lavrenko, 2008) . 

 Informativeness Relevance still ignores other potential sources of information such as previous knowledge or preconceptions. We need to further extend the contextual boundary. Intuitively, a summary is informative if it induces, for a user, a great change in her knowledge about the world. Therefore, we introduce K, the background knowledge (or preconceptions about the task). K is represented by a probability distribution P K over semantic units ?. Formally, the amount of new information contained in a summary S is given by the crossentropy Inf (S, K) = CE(S, K): Inf (S, K) = ? ? i P S (? i ) ? log(P K (? i )) (5) For Relevance the cross-entropy between S and D should be low. However, for Informativeness, the cross-entropy between S and K should be high because we measure the amount of new information induced by the summary in our knowledge. Background knowledge is modeled by assigning a high probability to known semantic units. These probabilities correspond to the strength of ? i in the user's memory. A simple model could be the uniform distribution over known information: P K (? i ) is 1 n if the user knows ? i , and 0 otherwise. However, K can control other variants of the summarization task: A personalized K p models the preferences of a user by setting low probabilities to the semantic units of interest. Similarly, a query Q can be encoded by setting low probability to semantic units related to Q. Finally, there is a natural formulation of update summarization. Let U and D be two sets of documents. Update summarization consists in summarizing D given that the user has already seen U . This is modeled by setting K = U , considering U as previous knowledge. 

 Informativeness in Previous Works: The modelization of Informativeness has received less attention by the summarization community. The problem of identifying stopwords originally faced by Luhn (1958) could be addressed by developments in the field of information retrieval using background corpora like TF?IDF  (Sparck Jones, 1972) . Based on the same intuition,  Dunning (1993)  outlined an alternative way of identifying highly descriptive words: the loglikelihood ratio test. Words identified with such techniques are known to be useful in news summarization  (Harabagiu and Lacatusu, 2005) . Furthermore,  Conroy et al. (2006)  proposed to model background knowledge by a large random set of news articles. In update summarization, Delort and Alfonseca (2012) used Bayesian topic models to ensure the extraction of informative summaries. Louis (2014) investigated background knowledge for update summarization with Bayesian surprise. This is comparable to the combination of Informativeness and Redundancy in our framework when semantic units are ngrams. Thus, previous approaches to Informativeness generally craft an alternate background distribution to model the a-priori importance of units. Then, units from the document rare in the background are preferred, which is captured by maximizing the cross-entropy between the summary and K. Indeed, unfrequent units in the background would be preferred in the summary because they would be surprising (i.e., informative) to an average user. 

 Importance Since Importance is a measure that guides which choices to make when discarding semantic units, we must devise a way to encode their relative importance. Here, this means finding a probability distribution unifying D and K by encoding expectations about which semantic units should appear in a summary. Informativeness requires a biased summary (w.r.t. K) and Relevance requires an unbiased summary (w.r.t. D). Thus, a summary should, by using only information available in D, produce what brings the most new information to a user with knowledge K. This could formalize a common intuition in summarization that units frequent in the source(s) but rare in the background are important. Formally, let d i = P D (? i ) be the probability of the unit ? i in the source D. Similarly, we note k i = P K (? i ). We seek a function f (d i , k i ) encoding the importance of unit ? i . We formulate simple requirements that f should satisfy: ? Informativeness: ?i = j, if d i = d j and k i > k j then f (d i , k i ) < f (d j , k j ) ? Relevance: ?i = j, if d i > d j and k i = k j then f (d i , k i ) > f (d j , k j ) ? Additivity: I(f (d i , k i )) ? ?I(d i ) + ?I(k i ) (I is the information measure from Shannon's theory  (Shannon, 1948) ) ? Normalization: i f (d i , k i ) = 1 The first requirement states that, for two semantic units equally represented in the sources, we prefer the more informative one. The second requirement is an analogous statement for Relevance. The third requirement is a consistency constraint to preserve additivity of the information measures  (Shannon, 1948) . The fourth requirement ensures that f is a valid distribution. Theorem 1. The functions satisfying the previous requirements are of the form: P D K (? i ) = 1 C ? d ? i k ? i (6) C = i d ? i k ? i , ?, ? ? R + (7) C is the normalizing constant. The parameters ? and ? represent the strength given to Relevance and Informativeness respectively which is made clearer by equation (  11 ). The proof is provided in appendix B. 

 Summary scoring function: By construction, a candidate summary should approximate P D K , which encodes the relative importance of semantic units. Furthermore, the summary should be non-redundant (i.e., high entropy). These two requirements are unified by the Kullback MDI principle: The least biased summary S * that best approximates the distribution P D K is the solution of: S * = argmax S ? I = argmin S KL(S||P D K ) (8) Thus, we note ? I as the quantity that scores summaries: ? I (S, D, K) = ?KL(P S , ||P D K ) (9) Interpretation of P D K : P D K can be viewed as an importance-encoding distribution because it encodes the relative importance of semantic units and gives an overall target for the summary. For example, if a semantic unit ? i is prominent in D (P D (? i ) is high) and not known in K (P D (? i ) is low), then P D K (? i ) is very high, which means very desired in the summary. Indeed, choosing this unit will fill the gap in the knowledge K while matching the sources. Figure  1  illustrates how this distribution behaves with respect to D and K (for ? = ? = 1). 

 Summarizability: The target distribution P D K may exhibit different properties. For example, it might be clear which semantic units should be extracted (i.e., a spiky probability distribution) or it might be unclear (i.e., many units have more or less the same importance score). This can be quantified by the entropy of the importance-encoding distribution: H D K = H(P D K ) (10) Intuitively, this measures the number of possibly good summaries. If H D K is low then P D S is spiky and there is little uncertainty about which semantic units to extract (few possible good summaries). Conversely, if the entropy is high, many equivalently good summaries are possible. 

 Interpretation of ? I : To better understand ? I , we remark that it can be expressed in terms of the previously defined quantities: Finally, H(S), CE(S, D) and CE(S, K) are the three independent components of Importance. It is worth noting that each previously defined quantity: Red, Rel and Inf are measured in bits (using base 2 for the logarithm). Then, ? I is also an information measure expressed in bits.  Shannon (1948)  initially axiomatized that information quantities should be additive and therefore ? I arising as the sum of other information quantities is unsurprising. Moreover, we ensured additivity with the third requirement of P D K . 

 Potential Information Relevance relates S and D, Informativeness relates S and K, but we can also connect D and K. Intuitively, we can extract a lot of new information from D only when K and D are different. With the same argument laid out for Informativeness, we can define the amount of potential information as the average surprise of observing D while already knowing K. Again, this is given by the cross-entropy P I K (D) = CE(D, K): P I K (D) = ? ? i P D (? i ) ? log(P K (? i )) (13) Previously, we stated that a summary should aim, using only information from D, to offer the maximum amount of new information with respect to K. P I K (D) can be understood as Potential Information or maximum Informativeness, the maximum amount of new information that a summary can extract from D while knowing K. A summary S cannot extract more than P I K (D) bits of information (if using only information from D). 

 Experiments 

 Experimental setup To further illustrate the workings of the formula, we provide examples of experiments done with a simplistic choice for semantic units: words. Even with simple assumptions ? I is a meaningful quantity which correlates well with human judgments. 

 Data: We experiment with standard datasets for two different summarization tasks: generic and update multi-document summarization. We use two datasets from the Text Analysis Conference (TAC) shared task:  TAC-2008 and TAC-2009. 2  In the update part, 10 new documents (B documents) are to be summarized assuming that the first 10 documents (A documents) have already been seen. The generic task consists in summarizing the initial document set (A). For each topic, there are 4 human reference summaries and a manually created Pyramid set . In both editions, all system summaries and the 4 reference summaries were manually evaluated by NIST assessors for readability, content selection (with Pyramid) and overall responsiveness. At the time of the shared tasks, 57 systems were submitted to TAC-2008 and 55 to TAC-2009.  

 Setup and Assumptions: To keep the experiments simple and focused on illustrating the formulas, we make several simplistic assumptions. First, we choose words as semantic units and therefore texts are represented as frequency distributions over words. This assumption was already employed by previous works using information-theoretic tools for summarization  (Haghighi and Vanderwende, 2009) . While it is limiting, this remains a simple approximation letting us observe the quantities in action. K, ? and ? are the parameters of the theory and their choice is subject to empirical investigation. Here, we make simple choices: for update summarization, K is the frequency distribution over words in the background documents (A). For generic summarization, K is the uniform probability distribution over all words from the source documents. Furthermore, we use ? = ? = 1. 

 Correlation with humans First, we measure how well the different quantities correlate with human judgments. We compute the score of each system summary according to each quantity defined in the previous section: Red, Rel, Inf , ? I (S, D, K). We then compute the correlations between these scores and the manual Pyramid scores. Indeed, each quantity is a summary scoring function and could, therefore, be evaluated based on its ability to correlate with human judgments  (Lin and Hovy, 2003) . Thus, we also report the performances of the summary scoring functions from several standard baselines: Edmundson  (Edmundson, 1969)  which scores sentences based on 4 methods: term frequency, presence of cue-words, overlap with title and position of the sentence. LexRank  (Erkan and Radev, 2004 ) is a popular graph-based approach which scores sentences based on their centrality in a sentence similarity graph. ICSI  (Gillick and Favre, 2009)  extracts a summary by solving a maximum coverage problem considering the most frequent bigrams in the source documents. KL and JS  (Haghighi and Vanderwende, 2009)  which measure the divergence between the distribution of words in the summary and in the sources. Furthermore, we report two baselines from  Louis (2014)  which account for background knowledge: KL back and JS back which measure the divergence between the distribution of the summary and the background knowledge K. Further details concerning baseline scoring functions can be found in appendix A. We measure the correlations with Kendall's ? , a rank correlation metric which compares the orders induced by both scored lists. We report results for both generic and update summarization averaged over all topics for both datasets in table 1. In general, the modelizations of Relevance (based only on the sources) correlate better with human judgments than other quantities. Metrics accounting for background knowledge work better in the update scenario. This is not surprising as the background knowledge K is more meaningful in this case (using the previous document set). We observe that JS divergence gives slightly better results than KL. Even though KL is more theoretically appealing, JS is smoother and usually works better in practice when distributions have different supports  (Louis and Nenkova, 2013) . Finally, ? I significantly 3 outperforms all baselines in both the generic and the update case. Red, Rel and Inf are not particularly strong on their own, but combined together they yield a strong summary scoring function ? I . Indeed, each quantity models only one aspect of content selection, only together they form a strong signal for Importance. We need to be careful when interpreting these results because we made several strong assumptions: by choosing n-grams as semantic units and by choosing K rather arbitrarily. Nevertheless, these are promising results. By investigating better text representations and more realistic K, we should expect even higher correlations. We provide a qualitative example on one topic in appendix C with a visualization of P D K in comparison to reference summaries.  

 Comparison with Reference Summaries Intuitively, the distribution P D K should be similar to the probability distribution P R of the humanwritten reference summaries. To verify this, we scored the system summaries and the reference summaries with ? I and checked whether there is a significant difference between the two lists.  4  We found that ? I scores reference summaries significantly higher than system summaries. The p?value, for the generic case, is 9.2e?6 and 1.1e?3 for the update case. Both are much smaller than the 1e?2 significance level. Therefore, ? I is capable of distinguishing systems summaries from human written ones. For comparison, the best baseline (JS) has the following p?values: 8.2e?3 (Generic) and 4.5e?2 (Update). It does not pass the 1e?2 significance level for the update scenario. 

 Conclusion and Future Work In this work, we argued for the development of theoretical models of Importance and proposed one such framework. Thus, we investigated a theoretical formulation of the notion of Importance. In a framework rooted in information theory, we formalized several summary-related quantities like: Redundancy, Relevance and Informativeness. Importance arises as the notion unifying these concepts. More generally, Importance is the measure that guides which choices to make when information must be discarded. The introduced quantities generalize the intuitions that have previously been used in summarization research. Conceptually, it is straightforward to build a system out of ? I once a semantic units representation and a K have been chosen. A summarizer intends to extract or generate a summary maximizing ? I . This fits within the general optimization framework for summarization  (McDonald, 2007; Peyrard and Eckle-Kohler, 2017b; Peyrard and Gurevych, 2018)  The background knowledge and the choice of semantic units are free parameters of the theory. They are design choices which can be explored empirically by subsequent works. Our experiments already hint that strong summarizers can be developed from this framework. Characters, character n-grams, morphemes, words, n-grams, phrases, and sentences do not actually qualify as semantic units. Even though previous works who relied on information theoretic motivation  (Lin et al., 2006; Haghighi and Vanderwende, 2009; Louis and Nenkova, 2013; Peyrard and Eckle-Kohler, 2016 ) used some of them as support for probability distributions, they are neither atomic nor independent. It is mainly because they are surface forms whereas semantic units are abstract and operate at the semantic level. However, they might serve as convenient approximations. Then, interesting research questions arise like Which granularity offers a good approximation of semantic units? Can we automatically learn good approximations? N-grams are known to be useful, but other granularities have rarely been considered together with information-theoretic tools. For the background knowledge K, a promising direction would be to use the framework to actually learn it from data. In particular, one can apply supervised techniques to automatically search for K, ? and ?: finding the values of these parame-ters such that ? I has the best correlation with human judgments. By aggregating over many users and many topics one can find a generic K: what, on average, people consider as known when summarizing a document. By aggregating over different people but in one domain, one can uncover a domain-specific K. Similarly, by aggregating over many topics for one person, one would find a personalized K. These consistute promising research directions for future works. 
