title
Fast Joint Compression and Summarization via Graph Cuts

abstract
Extractive summarization typically uses sentences as summarization units. In contrast, joint compression and summarization can use smaller units such as words and phrases, resulting in summaries containing more information. The goal of compressive summarization is to find a subset of words that maximize the total score of concepts and cutting dependency arcs under the grammar constraints and summary length constraint. We propose an efficient decoding algorithm for fast compressive summarization using graph cuts. Our approach first relaxes the length constraint using Lagrangian relaxation. Then we propose to bound the relaxed objective function by the supermodular binary quadratic programming problem, which can be solved efficiently using graph max-flow/min-cut. Since finding the tightest lower bound suffers from local optimality, we use convex relaxation for initialization. Experimental results on TAC2008 dataset demonstrate our method achieves competitive ROUGE score and has good readability, while is much faster than the integer linear programming (ILP) method.

Introduction Automatic multi-document summarization helps readers get the most important information from large amounts of texts. Summarization techniques can be roughly divided into two categories: extractive and abstractive. Extractive summarization casts the summarization task as a sentence selection problem: identifying important summary sentences from one or multiple documents. Many methods have been developed in the past decades, including supervised approaches that use classifiers to predict summary sentences, graph based approaches to rank the sentences, and recent global optimization methods such as integer linear programming  (Gillick et al., 2008)  (ILP) and submodular maximization methods  (Lin and Bilmes, 2011) . Though extractive summarization is popular because of its simplicity and high readability, it has limitations in that it selects each sentence as a whole, and thus may miss informative partial sentences. To improve the informativeness, joint compression and summarization was proposed  (Berg-Kirkpatrick et al., 2011) , which uses words as summarization units, unlike extractive summarization where each sentence is a basic undecomposable unit. To achieve better readability, manually defined grammar constraints or automatically learned models based on syntax trees are added during the summarization process. Up to now, the state of the art compressive systems are based on integer linear programming (ILP). Because ILP suffers from exponential complexity, word-based compression summarization is an order of magnitude slower than sentence-based extraction. One common way to solve an ILP problem is to use its LP relaxation and round the results. However  Berg-Kirkpatrick et al. (2011)  found that LP relaxation gave poor results, finding unacceptably suboptimal solutions. For speedup, they proposed a two stage method where they performed some sentence selection in the first step to reduce the number of candidates. Despite their empirical success, such a pruning approach has its inherent problem in that it may eliminate correct sentences in the first step. Recently,  Almeida and Martins (2013)  proposed a fast joint decoding algorithm based on dual decomposition. For fast convergence, they added quadratic penalty terms to alleviate the learning rate problem. In this paper, we propose an efficient decoding algorithm for fast ILP based compressive summarization using graph cuts. Our assumption is that all concepts are word n-grams and non-negatively scored. The rationale for the non-negativity assumption is straightforward: the score of a concept reflects its informativeness, hence should be non-negative. Given a set of documents, each word is associated with a binary variable, indicating whether the word is selected in the summary. Our idea is to approximate the ILP as a binary quadratic programming problem where coefficients of all quadratic terms are nonnegative. It is well known that such binary quadratic function is supermodular, and its maximum can be solved efficiently using graph max-flow/min-cut. Hence the key is to find the coefficients of the supermodular binary quadratic function (SBQF) so that its maximum is close to the optimal ILP objective function. Our solution consists of 3 steps. First, we show that the subtree deletion model and grammar constraints can be eliminated by adding SBQFs to the objective function. Second, we relax the summary length constraint using Lagrangian relaxation. Third, we propose a family of SBQFs that are lower bounds of the ILP objective function. Since finding the tightest lower bound suffers from local optimality, we choose to use convex relaxation for initialization. To demonstrate our technique, we conduct experiments on Text Analysis Conference (TAC) datasets using the same train/test splits as previous work  (Berg-Kirkpatrick et al., 2011) . We compare our approach with the state-of-the-art ILP based approach in terms of summary quality (ROUGE scores and sentence quality) and speed. Experimental results show that our proposed method achieves competitive performance with ILP, while about 100 times faster. 

 Compressive Summarization 

 Extractive Summarization As our method is an approximation of ILP based method, we first briefly review the ILP based extractive summarization and compressive summarization.  Gillick and Favre (2009)  introduced the conceptbased ILP for summarization. A concept is a basic semantic unit. They used word bigrams as such language concepts. Their system achieved the highest ROUGE score on the TAC 2009 evaluation. This approach selects sentences so that the total score of language concepts appearing in the summary is maximized. The association between the language concepts and sentences serves as the constraints, in addition to the summary length constraint. Formally, given a set of sentences S = {s n } N n=1 , extractive summarization can be represented by a binary vector y, where y n indicates whether sentence s n is selected. Let C = {c 1 , . . . c J } denote the set of concepts in S, e.g., word bigrams  (Gillick and Favre, 2009) . Each concept c j is associated with a given score w j and a binary variable v j indicating if c j is selected in the summary. Let n jk denote the index of the sentence containing the k th occurrence of concept c j , and l n denote the length of sentence s n . The ILP based extractive summarization system can be formulated as below: max y,v J ? j=1 w j v j s.t. v j = ? k y n jk 1 ? j ? J (1) N ? i=1 y n l n ? L v, y are binary The first constraint is imposed by the relation between concept selection and sentence selection: selecting a sentence leads to the selection of all the concepts it contains, and selecting a concept only happens when it is present in at least one of the selected sentences. The second constraint is the summary length constraint. As solving an ILP problem is generally NP-hard, pre-pruning of candidate concepts and sentences is necessary for efficient summarization. For exam-ple, the ICSI system  (Gillick et al., 2008)  removed the sentences that are too short or have non-overlap with the queries, and concepts with document frequency less than 3, resulting in 95.8 sentences and about 80 concepts per topic on the TAC2009 dataset. Therefore the actual scale of ILP is rather small after pruning (e.g., 176 variables and 372 constraints per topic). Empirical studies showed that such small scale ILP can be solved within a few seconds  (Gillick and Favre, 2009) . 

 Compressive Summarization The quality of sentence-based extractive summarization is limited by the informativeness of the original sentences and the summary length constraint. To remove the unimportant part from a long sentence, sentence compression is proposed to generate more informative summaries  (Liu and Liu, 2009; Li et al., 2013a) . Recent studies show that joint sentence compression and extraction, namely compressive summarization, outperforms pipeline systems that run extractive summarization on the compressed sentences or compress selected summary sentences  (Martins and Smith, 2009; Berg-Kirkpatrick et al., 2011; Chali and Hasan, 2012) . In  Berg-Kirkpatrick et al. (2011) , compressive summarization integrates the concept model for extractive summarization  (Gillick and Favre, 2009 ) and subtree deletion model for sentence compression. The score of a compressive summary consists of two parts, scores of selected concepts, and scores of the broken arcs in the dependency parse trees. The selected words must satisfy the length constraint and grammar constraints that include subtree constraint and some manually defined hard constraints. Formally, let x = x 1 . . . x I denote the word sequence of documents, where s 1 = x 1 , . . . x l 1 corresponds to the first sentence, s 2 = x l 1 +1 , . . . , x l 1 +l 2 corresponds to the second sentence, and so on. A compressive summary can be represented by a binary vector z, where z i indicates whether word x i is selected in the summary. Let a hm denote the arc x h ? x m in the dependency parse tree of the corresponding sentence containing words x h and x m , and A = {a hm } denote the set of dependency arcs. The subtree constraint ensures that word x m is selected only if its head x h is selected. In order to guarantee the readability, grammar constraints are added to prohibit the breaks of some specific arcs. For example,  Clarke and Lapata (2008)  never deleted an arc whose dependency label is SUB, OBJ, PMOD, SBAR or VC. In this paper, we use B ? A to denote the set of these arcs that must not be broken in summarization. We use o jk to denote the indices of words corresponding to the k th occurrence of c j . For example, suppose the j th concept European Union appears twice in the document: x 22 x 23 = x 50 x 51 =European Union, then o j1 = {22, 23}, o j2 = {50, 51}. The compressive summarization model can be formulated as an integer programming problem max z,v J ? j=1 w j ? v j + ? a hm ?A w a hm z h (1 ? z m ) s.t. v j = ? k ? i?o jk z i ?j ? i z i ? L z h ? z m ?a hm ? A (2) z h = z m ?a hm ? B z, v are binary According to the subtree deletion model, the score of arc a hm is included if z h = 1 and z m = 0, which can be formulated as w a hm ? z h (1 ? z m ). The first constraint is similar to that in extractive summarization, that is, a concept is selected if and only if any of its occurrence is selected. The third and fourth constraints are the subtree constraints and manually defined grammar constraints respectively. In the rest of the paper, without loss of generality, we remove the fourth constraint by directly substituting one variable for the other. Finding the optimal summary is generally NPhard. Unlike extractive summarization where the scale of the problem (the number of sentences and concepts) is small, the number of variables in compressive summarization is linear in the number of words, which is usually thousands on the TAC datasets. Hence solving such a problem using ILP based decoding algorithms is not efficient especially when the document set is large. 

 Fast Decoding via Graph Cuts In this section, we introduce our fast decoding algorithm. We assume that all the concepts are word n-grams, and their scores are non-negative. The nonnegativity assumption can reduce the computational complexity, but is also reasonable: the score of a concept denotes its informativeness, hence should be non-negative. For example,  Li et al. (2013b)  proposed to use the estimated normalized frequencies of concepts as scores, which are essentially nonnegative. The basic idea of our method is to approximate the above optimization problem (2) by the supermodular binary quadratic programming (SBQP) problem: max z ? i ? i z i + ? ij ? ij z i z j s.t. z is binary (3) where ? ij ? 0. It is known that such a binary quadratic function is supermodular, and its maximum can be solved efficiently using graph maxflow/min-cut  (Billionnet and Minoux, 1985; Kolmogorov and Zabih, 2004) . Now the problem is to find the optimal ?, ? for a good approximation. 

 Formulate Grammar Constraints and Subtree Deletion Model by SBQF We show that the subtree deletion model can be formulated equivalently using SBQF. First, we can eliminate the constraint z h ? z m by adding a penalty term to the objective function. That is, max f (z) s.t. z h ? z m z is binary is equivalent to max f (z) ? ?(1 ? z h )z m s.t. z is binary We can see that the penalty term ?(1 ? z h )z m excludes z h = 0, z m = 1 from the feasible set, and for z h ? z m , both problems have the same objective function value. Hence the two problems are equivalent. Notice that the coefficient of quadratic term in ?(1 ? z h )z m is positive, hence the penalty term is supermodular. Now we eliminate the third constraint in problem (2) using the penalized objective function described above. Note that the fourth constraint has been eliminated by variable substitution, we have max z,v J ? j=1 w j ? v j + ? a hm ?A w a hm z h (1 ? z m ) ? ? a hm ?A (1 ? z h )z m s.t. v j = ? k ? i?o jk z i ?j (4) ? i z i ? L z, v are binary We can see that for each arc a hm , there must be a positive quadratic term +?z h z m in the objective function, which guarantees the supermodularity of the objective function, no matter what w a hm is. 

 Eliminate Length Constraint Using Lagrangian Relaxation Problem (  4 ) is NP-hard, because for any feasible v, it is a SBQP with a length constraint. Since size constrained minimum cut problem is generally NP-hard  (Nagano et al., 2011) , Problem (4) can not be cast as a SBQP as long as P ? = NP. One popular way to deal with the size constrained optimization problem is Lagrangian relaxation. We introduce Lagrangian multiplier ? to the length constraint in Problem (4), and get min ? max z,v J ? j=1 w j ? v j + ? a hm ?A w a hm z h (1 ? z m ) ? ? a hm ?A (1 ? z h )z m +?(L ? ? i z i ) s.t. v j = ? k ? i?o jk z i ?j (5) ? ? 0 z, v are binary We solve the relaxed problem iteratively. In each iteration, we fix ? and solve the inner maximization problem (details described below). The score of each word is penalized by ? -with larger ?, fewer words are selected. Hence the summary length can be adjusted by ?. The optimal ? can be found using binary search. We maintain an upper bound ? max , and a lower bound ? min , which is initially 0. In each iteration, we choose ? = 1 2 (? max + ? min ) and search the optimal z. If the duality gap vanishes, i.e., ?(L ? ? i z i ) = 0 and ? i z i ? L, then we get the global solution of Problem (4). Otherwise, if ? i z i > L, then the current ? is too small, so we set ? min = ?; otherwise, ? > 0 and ? i z i < L, we set ? max = ?. The search process terminates if ? max ? ? min is less than a predefined threshold. 

 Eliminate v Using Supermodular Relaxation Now we consider the inner maximization Problem (5). It is still not a SBQP, since the objective function is not a linear function of z i z j . We propose to approximate the objective function using SBQP. Our solution consists of two steps. First we relax the first constraint of Problem (  5 ) by bounding the objective function with a family of supermodular pseudo boolean functions  (Boros and Hammer, 2002) . Second we reformulate these pseudo boolean functions equivalently as quadratic functions. Similar to the bounding strategy in  (Qian and Liu, 2013) , we relax the logical disjunction by linearization. Using the fact that for any binary vector a, we have ? a i = max p? ? i p i a i where ? denotes the probability simplex ? = {p| ? k p k = 1, p k ? 0} We have v j = ? k ? i?o jk z i = max p j ? ? k p jk ? i?o jk z i Plug the equation above into the objective function of Problem (5), we get the following optimization problem max z,p J ? j=1 ? ? ? k p jk w j ? i?o jk z i ? ? + ? a hm ?A w a hm z h (1 ? z m ) ? ? a hm ?A (1 ? z h )z m +?(L ? ? i z i ) s.t. z is binary (6) p j ? ? ?j Let Q(p, z) denote the objective function of Problem (6). Given p, we can see that Q is a supermodular pseudo boolean function because coefficients of all non-linear terms are non-negative. Using the fact that for any binary vector a = [a 1 , . . . a r ] T ,  (Freedman and Drineas, 2005) , we get the following equivalent optimization problem of Problem (  6 ) a i ? {0, 1}, 1 ? i ? r, r ? i=1 a i = max b?{0,1} ( r ? i=1 a i ? r + 1 ) b max z,p,q J ? j=1 ? k p jk w j q jk ? ? ? i?o jk z i ? |o jk | + 1 ? ? + ? a hm ?A w a hm z h (1 ? z m ) ? ? a hm ?A (1 ? z h )z m +?(L ? ? i z i ) s.t. z, q are binary (7) p j ? ? ?j where |o jk | is the size of o jk . Let R(z, p, q) denote the objective function of Problem (7), to search the optimal point, we alternatively update p and z, q. First we initialize p = p(0). In each iteration, we first fix p. It is obvious that Problem (7) is a SBQP, hence the optimal z, q can be solved efficiently using max-flow/mincut. Then we fix z, q, and update p using projected subgradient. That is p new j = P ? ( p j + ?R ?p j ? ) (8) where ? > 0 is the step size in line search, and function P ? (q) denotes the projection of q onto the feasible set ? P ? (q) = min p? ?p ? q? 2 which can be solved efficiently by sorting  (Duchi et al., 2008) . 

 Initialize p Using Convex Relaxation Since R is non-concave, searching its maximum using subgradient method suffers from local optimality. Though one can use techniques such as branchand-bound for exact inference  (Qian and Liu, 2013; Gormley and Eisner, 2013) , here for fast decoding, we use convex relaxation to choose a good seed p(0). Recall that p jk denotes the percentage of the k th occurrence contributing to c j . The larger p jk is, the more likely the k th occurrence is selected. To estimate such likelihood, we replace the binary constraint in extractive summarization (Problem (1)) by 0 ? y, v ? 1, since solving a relaxed LP is much faster than ILP. Suppose y * is the optimal solution for such a relaxed LP problem, we initialize p by p jk = y * n jk ? k y * n jk (9) If for all k, y * n jk = 0, then we initialize p jk using uniform distribution p jk = 1 |o j | where |o j | is the frequency of c j . 

 Summary For clarity, we summarize our decoding algorithm in Algorithm 1. Initial ? max can be arbitrarily large. In our experiments, we set ? max = ? j w j , which empirically guarantees the summary length ? i z i ? L when ? = ? max . The choice of the step size for updating p is similar to the projected subgradient method in dual decomposition  (Koo et al., 2010) . 

 Algorithm 1 Compressive Summarization via Graph Cuts Require: Scores of concepts {w j } and arcs {w a hm }, max summary length L. Ensure: Compressive summarization z * , where z i indicates whether the i th word is selected. Solve the relaxed LP of Problem (1) (replace the binary constraint by 0 ? y, v ? 1) to get y. Initialize p(0) using Eq (9). Initialize sufficient large ? max , and ? min = 0 while ? max ? ? min > ? do Set ? = 1 2 (? min + ? max ) Set p = p(0). repeat Fix p, solve Problem (7) to get z using maxflow/min-cut. Update p using Eq (8). until convergence if ? i z i > L then ? min = ? else if ? i z i < L then ? max = ? else break end if end while 

 Features and Hard Constraints We choose discriminative models to learn the scores of concepts and arcs. For concept c j , its score is w j = ? T concept f concept (c j ) where f concept (c j ) is the feature vector of c j , and ? concept is the corresponding weight vector of feature f concept (c j ). Similarly, score w a hm is defined as w a hm = ? T arc f arc (a hm ) Though our algorithm can handle general word ngram concepts, we restrict the concepts to word bigrams, which have been widely used recently in the sentence-based ILP extractive summarization systems. For a concept c j , we define the following features, some of which have been used in previous work  (Brandow et al., 1995; Aker and Gaizauskas, 2009; Edmundson, 1969; Radev, 2001; Li et al., 2013b) . All of these features are non-negative. ? Term frequency: the frequency of c j in the given topic. ? Stop word ratio: ratio of stop words in c j . The value can be {0, 0.5, 1}. ? Similarity with topic title: the number of common words in these two strings, divided by the length of the longer string. ? Document ratio: percentage of documents containing c j . ? Sentence ratio: percentage of sentences containing c j . ? Sentence-title similarity: word unigram/bigrams cosine similarity between the sentence containing c j and the topic title. For concepts appearing in multiple sentences, we choose the maximal similarity. ? Sentence-query similarity: word unigram/bigram cosine similarity between the sentence containing c j and the topic query (concatenation of topic title and description). For concepts appearing in multiple sentences, we choose the maximal similarity. ? Sentence position: position of the sentence containing c j in the document. For concepts appearing in multiple sentences, we choose the minimum. ? Sentence length: length of the sentence containing c j . For concepts appearing in multiple sentences, we choose the maximum. ? Paragraph starter: binary feature indicating whether c j appears in the first sentence of a paragraph. For subtree deletion model, we define the following features for arc a hm . ? POS tags of head word x h and child word x m and their concatenations. ? Dependency label of arc a hm and its parent arc. ? Word x m if x m is a conjunction word or preposition word. Word x h if x m is a conjunction word or preposition word. ? Binary feature indicating whether the modifier x m is a temporal word such as Friday. We also define some hard constraints for subtree deletion to improve the readability of the generated compressed sentences. ? C0 Arc a hm can be cut only if one of the two conditions holds: (1) there is a comma, colon, or semicolon between the head and the modifier; (2) the modifier word is a preposition (POS tag is IN) or a wh-word, such as what, who, whose (corresponds to POS tag IN, WDT, WP, WP$, WRB). ? C1 Arcs with dependency labels SUB, OBJ, PRD, SBAR or VC can not be cut. ? C2 Arcs in set phrases like so far, more than, according to can not be cut. ? C3 All arcs in coordinate structures can not be cut, such as cats and dogs. Note that compared with previous work, our compression is more conservative. Constraint C0 allows only a small portion of arcs to be cut. This is based on our observation of the sentence compression corpus: removing preposition phrases (PP) or sub-clauses can greatly reduce the length of sentence, while hurting the readability little. Cutting other arcs like NMOD usually removes only one or two words, and possibly affects the sentence's readability. 

 Experimental Results 

 Experimental Setup Due to the lack of training data for compressive summarization, we learn the subtree deletion model and the concept model separately. Specifically, the sentence compression dataset  (Clarke and Lapata, 2008 ) (referred as CL08) is used for subtree deletion model training (? arc ). A sentence pair in the corpus is kept for training the subtree deletion model if the compressed sentence can be derived by deleting subtrees from the parse tree of the original sentence. There are 3, 178 out of 5, 739 such pairs. The concept model (? concept ) is learned from the TAC2009 dataset. We create the oracle extractive summaries with the maximal bigram recall as the reference summary. TAC2010 data is used as   (Clarke and Lapata, 2008)  for learning the subtree deletion model. development set for various parameter tuning. Table  1  has the descriptions of all the data used. We choose averaged perceptron for fast training. The number of iterations is tuned on the development data. Remind that our algorithm is based on the assumption that scores of concepts are non-negative, ?j, w j ? 0. We assume that feature vector f concept is non-negative (e.g., term frequency, n-gram features), then ? concept ? 0 is required to guarantee the non-negativity of w j . Therefore, we project ? concept onto the non-negative space after each iteration. Since training is offline, we use ILP based exact inference for accurate learning.  1  To control the contributions of the concept model and the subtree deletion model, we introduce a parameter ?, and modify the original maximization problem (Problem 2) to: max z,v J ? j=1 w j ? v j + ? ? ? a hm ?A w a hm z h (1 ? z m ) We tune ? on TAC2010 dataset. For max-flow/mincut, in our experiments, we implemented the improved shortest augmented path (SAP) method  (Edmonds and Karp, 1972) . For performance measure of the summaries, we use both ROUGE and linguistic quality. ROUGE has been widely used for summarization performance and can measure the informativeness of the summaries (content match between system and reference summaries). Since joint compression and summarization tends to pick isolated words to maximize the information coverage in the system generated summaries, it may have poor readability. Therefore we conduct human evaluation for the linguis-tic quality for various systems. The linguistic quality consists of two parts. One evaluates the grammar quality within a sentence. Annotators marked if a compressed sentence is grammatically correct. Typical grammar errors include lack of verb or subordinate clause. The other evaluates the coherence between sentences, including the order of sentences and irrelevant sentences. For compressive summaries, we removed the sentences with grammar errors when evaluating coherence. The overall linguistic quality score is the combined score of the percentage of grammatically correct sentences and the correct ordering of the summary sentences. The score is scaled and ranges from 1 (bad) to 10 (good). 

 Results on the Development Set We conducted a series of experiments on the development dataset to investigate the effect of the non-negative score assumption, SBQP approximation, and initialization. First, we build a standard ILP based compressive summarizer without the non-negative score assumption. We varied ? over {2 ?4 , 2 ?3 , . . . 2 4 } and selected the optimal ? = 2 ?2 according to both ROUGE-2 score and linguistic quality. This interpolation weight is used in all the other experiments. To study the impact of the non-negative score assumption, we build another summarizer by replacing the concept model with the one trained under the non-negative constraint. We also compared three different initialization strategies for p. The first one is uniform initialization, i.e., p jk = 1 |o j | . The second one is a greedy approach, where extractive summarization is obtained by greedy search (i.e., add the top ranked sentence iteratively), then we use the corresponding y and Eq (9) to initialize p. The last one is our convex relaxation method described in Section 3.4. Table  2  shows the comparison results. For comparison, we also include the sentence-based ILP extractive summarization results. We can see that the impact of initial p is substantial. Using convex relaxation helps our method to survive from local optimality. The non-negativity assumption has very little effect on the standard compressive summarization (comparing the first two rows). This empirical result demonstrates the appropriateness of the assumption we use in our proposed method. System R-2 LQ ILP (? = 2 ?2 ) 11.22 6.3 ILP (Non Neg.) 11.18 6.4 Graph Cut (uniform) 9.54 5.9 Graph Cut (greedy) 10.13 6.2 Graph Cut (LP) 11.06 6.1 Sent Extractive 10.11 7.3 Table  2 : Experimental results on development dataset. R-2 and LQ are short for ROUGE-2 score multiplied by 100, and linguistic quality respectively. 

 Results on Test Dataset Table  3  shows the summarization results for various systems on the TAC2008 data set. We show both the summarization performance and the speed 2 of the system. The presented systems include our graphcut based method, the ILP based compression and summarization, and the sentence-based extractive summarization. ILP 2-step refers to the 2-step fast decoding strategy proposed by  (Berg-Kirkpatrick et al., 2011) . We also list the performance of some state-of-theart systems, including the two ICSI systems  (Gillick et al., 2008) , the compressive summarization system of  Berg-Kirkpatrick et al. (2011) (GBK'11) , the multi-aspect ILP system of Woodsend and Lapata (2012)(WL'12) and the dual decomposition based system  (Almeida and Martins, 2013 ) (AM'13). Note that for these referred systems since the linguistic quality results are not comparable due to different judgment methods. For our graph-cut based method, to study the tradeoff between the readability of the summary and the ROUGE scores, we present two versions for this method: one uses all the constraints (C0-C3), the other does not use C0. We can see that our proposed method balanced speed and quality. Compared with ILP, we achieved competitive ROUGE scores, but with about 100x speedup. Our method is also faster than the 2-step ILP system. We also tried another state-of-the-art LP solver, Gurobi version 5.5 3 , it achieves 0.17 seconds per topic, much faster than GLPK, but stil- l slower than ours. Regarding the grammar constraints used in our system, from the two results for our graph-cut based method, we can see that adding constraint C0 significantly decreases the R-2 score but improves the language quality. This shows that word-based joint compression and summarization can improve ROUGE score; however, we need to keep in mind about linguistic quality and find a tradeoff between the ROUGE score and the linguistic quality.  Almeida and Martins (2013)  trained their model on extra corpora using multi-task learning, and achieved better results than ours. The results of our system and theirs showed that Lagrangian relaxation based method combined with combinatorial optimization algorithms such as dynamic programming or minimum cut can exploit the inner structure of problems and achieve significant speedup over ILP. Four example summaries produced by our system are shown below. Words in gray are not selected in the summary. India's space agency is ready to send a man to space within seven years if the government gives the nod, while preparations have lready begun for the launch of an unmanned lunar mission, a top official said. India will launch more missions to the moon if its maiden unmanned spacecraft Chandrayaan-1, slated to be launched by 2008, is successful a top space fficial said Tuesday. The United States, the European Space Agency, China, Japan and India are all planning lunar missions during the ext decade.India is "a step ahead" of China in satellite technology and can surpass Beijing in space research by tapping the talent of its huge pool of young scientists, India's space research chief said Monday. The space agencies of India and France signed an agreement on Friday to cooperate in launching a satellite in four years that will help make climate predictions more accurate. The Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) has short-listed experiments from five nations including the United States, Britain and Germany, for a slot on India's unmanned moon mission Chandrayaan-1 to be undertaken by 2006-2007, the Press Trust of India (PTI) reported Monday. A three-member Afghan delegation is in Bangalore seeking help to set up a high-tech telemedicine facility in 10 Afghan cities linked via Indian satellites, Indo-Asian News Service reported Saturday. A woman was killed in Mississippi when a tree crashed on her car, becoming the 11th fatality blamed on the powerful Hurricane Katrina that slammed the US Gulf coast after pounding Florida, local TV reported Monday. The bill for the Hurricane Katrina disaster effort has so far reached 2.87 billion dollars, federal officials said on Tuesday. The official death toll from Hurricane Katrina has risen to 118 people in and around the swamped city of New Orleans, officials said Thursday. The Foreign Ministry on Friday reported the first confirmed death of a Guatemalan due to Hurricane Katrina in the United States. The Ugandan government has pledged 200,000 US dollars toward relief and rebuilding efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, local press reported on Friday. Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world's second largest reinsurance company on Monday doubled to 40 billion US dollars its initial estimate of the global insured losses caused by Hurricane Katrina in the United States. The A380 'superjumbo', which will be presented to the world in a lavish ceremony in southern France on Tuesday, will be profitable from 2008, its maker Airbus told the French financial newspaper La Tribune. The A380 will take over from the Boeing 747 as the biggest jet in the skies. An association of residents living near Paris's Charles-de-Gaulle airport on Wednesday denounced the noise pollution generated by the giant Airbus A380, after the new airliner's maiden flight. One problem that Airbus is encountering with its new A380 is that the craft pushes the envelope on the maximum size of a commercial airplane. With a whisper more than a roar, the largest passenger airliner ever built, the Airbus 380, took off on its maiden flight Wednesday. "When she came in, she was in good spirits," a prison staffer told the New York Daily News. Martha Stewart, the American celebrity homemaker who had her own cooking and home improvement TV show, reported to a federal prison in Alderson, West Virginia, on Friday to serve a five-month sentence for lying about a stock sale. Home fashion guru Martha Stewart said on Friday that she has adjusted to prison life and is keeping busy behind bars since reporting a week ago to a federal penal camp in West Virginia, where she is serving a five-month sentence for lying about a stock sale. The lawyer said he did not know what she is writing, but Stewart has suggested since her conviction that she might write a book about her recent experience with the legal system. Walter Dellinger, the lawyer leading the appeal, said on NBC's "Today" that Stewart is exploring "innovative ways to do microwave cooking" The lawyer said he did not know with her fellow inmates. As Martha Stewart arrives at the red-brick federal prison in Alderson, W. Va., on Friday to begin a five-month sentence, the company she founded is focused both on life without her and on life once she returns. In most cases, the removed phrases do not hurt the readability of the summaries. The errors are mainly caused by the break of sub-clauses or main clauses that are separated by commas, for example, the fourth sentence in the last summary, The lawyer said he did not know what she is writing. The compressed sentence is grammatically correct, but semantically incomplete. Other errors are due to the lack of verb, subject, or object, or incorrect removal of PP, such as the last sentence of the last summary. 

 Conclusion In this paper, we propose a fast decoding algorithm for compressive summarization using graph cuts. Our idea is to approximate the original ILP problem using supermodular binary quadratic programming (SBQP) problem. Under the assumption that scores of concepts are non-negative, we eliminate subtree constraints and grammar constraints, and relax the length constraint and non-supermodular part of the problem step by step. Our experimental results showed that the graph cut based method achieved competitive performance compared to ILP, while about 100 times faster. There are several possibilities for further research involving our graph cut algorithms. One idea is to apply it to the language model based compression method  (Clarke and Lapata, 2008) . The other is to adapt it to social media text summarization task, where text is much more noisy. As graph cut is a general method, applying it to other binary structured learning tasks is also an interesting direction. Table 1 : 1 Corpus statistics. Training data consist of two parts, TAC2009 for learning the concept model, CL08 Corpus Sent. Words Topics Train TAC2009 4, 216 117, 304 44 CL08 3, 178 52, 624 N/A Develop TAC2010 2, 688 72, 609 46 Test TAC2008 4, 518 123, 946 
