title
Illinois Japanese ↔ English News Translation for WMT 2021

abstract
This system paper describes an end-toend NMT pipeline for the Japanese ? English news translation task as submitted to WMT 2021, where we explore the efficacy of techniques such as tokenizing with language-independent and language-dependent tokenizers, normalizing by orthographic conversion, creating a politeness-and-formality-aware model by implementing a tagger, back-translation, model ensembling, and n-best reranking. We use parallel corpora provided by WMT 2021 organizers for training, and development and test data from WMT 2020 for evaluation of different experiment models. The preprocessed corpora are trained with a Transformer neural network model. We found that combining various techniques described herein, such as languageindependent BPE tokenization, incorporating politeness and formality tags, model ensembling, n-best reranking, and backtranslation produced the best translation models relative to other experiment systems.

Introduction Despite recent advances in machine translation made possible by neural networks with attention mechanism  (Bahdanau et al., 2014; Luong et al., 2015) , the Japanese-English pair remains a challenging language pair for machine translation systems to handle. Challenges posed by this language pair are multifaceted, starting from seemingly trivial differences in orthographic representations to deep structural divergence in syntax. This paper describes an end-to-end neural machine translation system and related experiments dedicated to the News Translation Shared Task where the target language pair is Japanese ? English, as part of a submission to the Sixth Conference on Machine Translation -WMT 2021. In our experiments, we explored the efficacy of techniques such as tokenizing with language-independent and languagedependent tokenizers, normalizing by orthographic conversion, creating a politeness-andformality-aware model by implementing a tagger, back-translation, model ensembling, and n-best reranking. We found that normalizing the text by orthographic conversion did not improve over the baseline but controlling for politeness and formality levels of the text increased BLEU by 1.2 points for the En?Ja direction, and other techniques such as backtranslation, model ensembling, n-best reranking also produced improvements. The paper gives a detailed review of prior work, with a particular focus on WMT 2020 submissions, and then proceeds to describe our data, model architecture, experiments, results, and discussion of their implications. 

 Prior Work In this section, techniques and development in neural machine translation will be reviewed with a focus on the techniques and implementation most recently used for the Japanese-English language pair. General techniques deployed across papers submitted to WMT 2020 are bitext data filtering, back-translation, fine tuning with in-domain data, knowledge distillation, rule-based reranking, transfer learning, co-reference processing, hyperparameter search, segmenting by subword units, BPE dropout, model ensembling, pre-training with monolingual data, experimenting with different word segmentation methods, context word embedding, domain adaptation, using related languages in joint training, domain tagging, reranking using backward and forward scores, and dual conditional cross-entropy filtering  (Barrault et al., 2020) . In subsequent subsections, representative methods and techniques will be described and the impacts of these methods presented, in so far as they are applicable to the Japanese-English pair. 

 Data Preprocessing Data filtering, cleaning, and normalizing are essential steps in an NMT pipeline, due to the noisy nature of text corpora. A cursory glance at some of the given parallel corpora shows that our data could benefit from additional filtering and cleaning. For instance, the Paracrawl corpus contains a fair amount of duplicates or near duplicates and about 6 percent of the WikiMatrix corpus contains texts outside the source and target language. Previous submissions to WMT 2020 utilized a mix of language-independent and languagedependent data preprocessing methods to prepare the corpora for training. Researchers also noted a few issues in the parallel corpora requiring special attention; for example,  Kiyono et al. (2020)  remarked that their translation output contains additional transliteration in brackets after names already transliterated into katakana, because these patterns are very common in the KFTT training corpus. They advised that this issue be handled during preprocessing, because postprocessing clean-up, while possible, tended to hurt brevity  (Kiyono et al., 2020) . Following this suggestion, we incorporated a preprocessing step (described in section 3) to handle these patterns. 

 Tokenization Tokenization is an indispensable step in many natural language processing (NLP) applications. Byte-Pair-Encoding (BPE) by  Sennrich et al. (2016c)  is a popular compression algorithm that takes care of splitting words into subword units based on how frequent these units are. The main idea of BPE is to recover smaller subwords that are recurring in fuzzy 'word' boundaries in order to compress the vocabulary and decomposes rare words into known subwords. BPE is an effective solution to the issue of rare words, open vocabulary, and agglutinating morphology in some languages. The algorithm works by splitting all words into individual characters, adding them to a vocabulary, and then iteratively merging the most frequency subword pairs and adding them to the vocabulary.  Kudo and Richardson (2018)  implemented BPE in SentencePiece, an unsupervised toolkit for word segmentation. A languageagnostic tokenizing and detokenizing algorithm that implements subword unit BPE  (Sennrich et al., 2016c)  and unigram language model  (Kudo, 2018)  to tokenize the data, SentencePiece also provides a convenient interface to quickly tokenize and detokenize the data, because its implementation of BPE treats the sentences as sequences of Unicode characters, does not rely on languagedependent logic, and allows training from raw texts. The developers of SentencePiece experimented their toolkit with and without pretokenization for an English-Japanese translation task, and found that the performance of training on raw texts is comparable to training with pre-tokenization. Previous submissions to WMT 2020 are divided when it comes to which method was preferred for tokenization. Three submissions  (Kiyono et al., 2020; Oravecz et al., 2020; Marie et al., 2020)  used Sentence-Piece and three submissions  (Kim et al., 2020; Shi et al., 2020;  used language-specific tokenizers to preprocess Japanese (MeCab) and English (Moses) corpora. MeCab is a popular lattice-based tokenizer for Japanese. It builds a graph-like data structure to hold possible tokens in the text and then uses the Viterbi algorithm to find the best path through the graph. Moses is a wellknown statistical machine translation toolkit; its perl scripts are often used to preprocess English corpora for NMT training  (Koehn et al., 2007) . We experimented with both Sentence-Piece and language-dependent tokenizers prior to submission. The details will be outlined in section 5.1 of this report. 

 Model Architecture Most of the papers submitted to WMT 2020 used the Transformer Big settings described in  Vaswani et al. (2017)  for their NMT model architecture  (Marie et al., 2020; Kiyono et al., 2020; Shi et al., 2020; Oravecz et al., 2020; . Prior to the publication of Attention is All You Need, prominent approaches to sequence-to-sequence modeling include recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber, 1997), and gated recurrent neural networks. All of these approaches suffer from computational bottleneck due to their sequential nature, which prevents parallelization within training examples. The Transformer did away with convolution and recurrence and focused on attention mechanisms, allowing for modeling of long-distance dependencies in parallel. Subsequently, it has been proven to be very successful at handling long distance dependency in natural language, as it allows the model to focus attention on particular source tokens via computation of an attention score. The attention score can be determined by way of different methods, such as a (scaled) dot product (implemented in  Vaswani et al. (2017) ), bilinear functions, or multi-layer perceptrons. The Transformer achieved state-of-the-art results in English ? French and English ? German translation tasks while cutting down on training time thanks to parallelization. 

 Back-Translation Back-translation is a commonly used method in NMT to augment bitext training data by creating an additional synthetic parallel corpus from monolingual corpora  (Sennrich et al., 2016b) . To create back-translated data, a model that translates from target to source is required. First, a monolingual corpus of the target language is used to obtain translations in the source language. Subsequently, this monolingual corpus and the translated synthetic data are appended to the original training data to train the source to target model. It is ideal to have a lower ratio of synthetic data to parallel corpus in training the desired model. As the amount of bitext corpora available for the Japanese-English pair is well under 20 million sentence pairs, Japanese-English can be considered to be a mediumresource language pair and additional backtranslated data could help improve translations. It should also be noted that there are limited domain-specific corpora for the language pair, and adding additional synthetic data back-translated from NewsCrawl and NewsCommentary may help augment the models. 

 Model Reranking Zhang et al. (  2020 ) implemented model reranking following  Ng et al. (2019) . N-best reranking scores and chooses a translation hypothesis from a list of n-best hypotheses. This method is based on a noisy channel model and Bayesian theorem of conditional probability in log scale, where the weight parameters are learned from fine tuning a validation set. For decoding, they used beam search to generate an n-best candidate list and chose the candidate hypothesis that maximizes the objective conditional probability as the best hypothesis. Besides the noisy channel approach, reranking can be done using various criteria, such as distortion score, word penality, phrase penality, and so on.  Shi et al. (2020)  generated n-best candidates by model ensembling of forward translation models, backward translation models, and language models of the target language and then apply K-batched MIRA  (Cherry and Foster, 2012)  or noisy channel  to score them.  Kiyono et al. (2020)  generated n-best candidates from Source-to-Target L2R, R2L models, Target-to-Source L2R, R2L models, Unidictionary Language models, and Masked Language models to compute the scores for reranking. We reranked translation hypotheses using perplexity as a criteria. 

 Data Our system was trained, developed, and tested fully on data provided by the WMT 2021 organizers, making it a constrained submission. Details of the raw parallel corpora prior to substantial filtering 1 used in our baseline and experiment models can be viewed in Table  1 . We used the WMT 2020 development and test sets to compare various experiment models against the baseline: 1998 sentences in the development set in both directions, 1000 test sentences for the En?Ja direction, and 993 sentences for the Ja?En direction. From the raw datasets, we applied data filtering to remove noisy data based on two main criteria, alignment confidence and language identification. An alignment score is available for both JParacrawl and WikiMatrix corpora; we chose 0.6 and 1.0 as the threshold for alignment confidence in JParacrawl and WikiMatrix respectively. We used fasttext  (Joulin et al., 2017)  and its pre-trained language identification model to identify the language of our text sentence-by-sentence, and then we filtered sentence pairs where the language identification confidence score is less than 0.8. We also applied on-the-fly filtering of sentences longer than 100 tokens during training. According to  Kiyono et al. (2020) , the KFTT corpus contained instances of having Japanese names followed by its English equivalent in parentheses, which caused their model to append English names after the Japanese name in the translation output, for example ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? (Cassidy Stay). To avoid this, we filtered out English translations of names in Japanese source text, specifically WikiMatrix and KFTT, so that any English names in parentheses following its Japanese equivalent were removed. For English, we normalized punctuation and remove non-printing characters using the Moses scripts  (Koehn et al., 2007) . The amount of parallel training data after filtering was 12.7 M for training our submission models. 

 Model Architecture We trained the parallel corpora using the Transformer base and Transformer big settings as described in  Vaswani et al. (2017) , presented in Table  2 . Pre-submission experiments were trained under the Transformer Base setting while all submission models were trained under the Transformer Big setting. We used the same optimization settings in the Trans-   

 Hyperparameters T-Base T-Big 

 Experiments 

 SentencePiece and Language-Dependent Tokenizers We compared two methods of tokenization for our system. The first is a tokenization method based on BPE and SentencePiece, as described in 2.2. We used SentencePiece  (Kudo and Richardson, 2018)  to train SentencePiece models for Japanese and English with 32,000 as the vocabulary size. SentencePiece is used to create a tokenizer that depends on subword units, similar to Byte Pair Encoding (BPE). This method of tokenization is especially effective for languages such as Japanese which does not use whitespace to separate words, has agglutinating morphology, and contains many compound words. Using SentencePiece helps extract subwords within compound words and create a more robust tokenizer. The tokenizer model was used with OpenNMT, which performed tokenization on-the-fly. SentencePiece was used again to detokenize by removing the meta symbols from the output translation. The second tokenization method that we experimented with is language-dependent. We tokenized English using Moses, following the steps described in  Hieber et al. (2018) , namely normalizing punctuation in the raw data with normalize-punctuation.perl, removing non-printing characters with removenon-printing-char.perl, and tokenizing by tokenizer.perl. For Japanese, we tokenized the data with fugashi (McCann, 2020), a Python wrapper of the MeCab morphological analyzer described in 2.2. After tokenization, we applied BPE  (Sennrich et al., 2016c)  on both Japanese and English with 25,000 merge operations to constrain the vocabulary size. For this comparison, we used a mid-sized corpus to save time and resources instead of the full 18M corpus. The number of sentences after filtering and preprocessing is 6.4M sentences. We trained the models using the Transformer Base settings, as described in Table  1 . 

 Normalizing by Orthographic Conversion The Japanese writing system uses a combination of three distinctive orthographic scripts: kanji, hiragana, and katakana. Kanji are Chinese characters, used to write content words such as nouns, verb stems, adjectives, and so on. Hiragana was derived from kanji. It is a phonetic syllabary, typically used to write conjugational endings, particles, and grammatical words. Katakana, also a phonetic syllabary much like hiragana, is typically reserved to write foreign words, loan words, or strengthen the emotive content of the texts. In modern times, the Latin alphabet also has increased visibility due to the popularity of English, and the Japanese language can be transliterated using this alphabet as well. This way of writing Japanese is called romaji. We were interested in examining if converting the raw training texts to other orthographic scripts such as hiragana and romaji affects the translation quality of the output. Because hiragana and katakana have a oneto-one correspondence, it sufficed to experiment with either one of them. Converting the raw text to hiragana has a normalizing effect as what it does is reducing the logographic/ideographic kanji characters to their pronunciation, the moraic units written in the hiragana syllabraries. In that sense, it helps reduce variability in the data and perhaps is beneficial. However, normalizing also strips the text off many contextual cues that would be helpful in translation. The dispersion of hiragana in between the content words written in kanji is arguably systematic enough for our model to learn that one is used to represent grammatical particles and the other is used to represent objects, names, actions, and so on. Similarly, converting the raw text to romaji has a normalizing effect at the quasi-phonemic level. In a related manner,  Du and Way (2017)  looked at how a model trained on pinyin performed on a Chinese ? English translation task. They found that using pinyin can help alleviate the problem of rare words, although it can introduce ambiguities. To investigate the question of what impact normalizing the Japanese source text in hiragana and romaji does, we experimented training three Ja?En models where the source text is written in three orthographic scripts, the regular mixed style (baseline), the normalized moraic level hiragana, and the normalized quasi-phonemic level romaji. Each training corpus contained 4M sentence pairs, after being filtered by setting the language identification score threshold at 0.85 and sampled. The data were preprocessed with Sentence-Piece and trained under the Transformer Base setting, as described in Table  1 . 

 Politeness and Formality Tagger Previous work showed that controlling politeness levels has a positive impact on machine translation systems.  Feely et al. (2019)  implemented a formality-aware tagging method for En?Ja NMT. The authors classified formality levels into three categories (informal, polite, and formal) and found that using a heuristics-based tagger improved the system's performance. Similar to  Feely et al. (2019) ,  Sennrich et al. (2016a)  and  Yamagishi et al. (2016)  improved on the stylistics of the output (politeness and honorific forms, respectively), by applying a side-constraint approach where target and source suffixes were added during training to add more meta-textual information to the corpora. We tested the effectiveness of this technique on an En?Ja translation system. The news genre is frequently written in fairly formal Japanese.  Makino (2008)  described politeness and formality in Japanese as orthogonal concepts. It's possible to use polite but informal language in daily polite conversations as well as formal language devoid of polite conjugations such as in news articles, academic papers, and so on. While the given parallel corpora are generally of the latter type, the subtitles corpus contains mostly colloquial language and the Ted talks corpus contains polite endings not intended to be used in news articles. Due to the presence of mixed writing styles in the training data, we developed a politeness and formality tagger that works in conjunction with the Kytea tokenizer  (Neubig, 2011)  to address this issue, because we observed that our initial translation outputs often contained polite forms not commonly used in the news genre.  Makino (2008)  notes that verbs and iadjectives have distinct forms for plain and polite but do not have distinct forms to indicate the formality levels because the same forms are used in both non-formal and formal writings. Furthermore, the copula da conjugation is critical to indicate formality. The tagging schema developed in  Feely et al. (2019)  combines the formal, plain form dearu into the polite category, and the formal category is what is typically referred to as keigo (honorifics). Our tagging schema is tailored towards the news corpus where dearu features often as a marker of formal writing while polite endings and keigo do not typically surface (see Appendix A for the detailed schema). Our tagger extracts the verb endings from the annotated sentences returned by Kytea and appends a <polite> or <formal> tag to the beginning of the source (English) side. Plain forms are left untagged as they are the default forms in the news genre. Applying this tagger on a 12.7M training corpus results in 34.76% tagged as polite and 3.81% tagged as formal. We tokenized the data using SentencePiece transforms, implemented in the OpenNMT toolkit. We also filtered out sentence pairs longer than 100 tokens. We trained the models using the Transformer Big settings, as described in Table  1 . 

 Back-Translation For back-translation, we preprocessed a subset of 4M sentences from the monolingual Newscrawl corpus in the same manner described in 3. The filtered corpus was 3,344,628 lines each. We then used the previously trained Ja?En and En?Ja model to translate the monolingual data to create synthetic data, setting a beam size of 1 during decoding. We obtained 2.4M and 2.6M sentences of Japanese and English synthetic data from back-translation, respectively. This was combined with the existing parallel data to create a corpus of approximately 15M sentences. 

 Model Ensembling and N-Best Reranking For n-best reranking, we used a script by Xu Song, bert-as-a-language-model 2 , which calculates the probability of tokens and perplexity of sentences given a corpus. Using OpenNMT's option to produce n-best translations from an emsemble of several high-performing checkpoints, we created 10 best translations, and used bert-as-a-language-model to pick the hypothesis with the best perplexity score. This method ensures the selected hypothesis has maximized fluency compared to other candidates. 6 Results and Discussion 3 

 SentencePiece and Language-Dependent Tokenizers We obtained the BLEU scores in Table  3  for our models. The comparison is not entirely fair because the amount of data trained for the Moses and fugashi tokenizer to translate in the Ja?En direction is 7.3M instead of 6.4M like other models. Additionally, the number of BPE merge operations learned for the language-dependent tokenizer case should have been set to the same as that of Sentence-Piece for a more equitable comparison. Using SentencePiece appears to yield better BLEU result in this experiment; however, we also did not keep the other factors constant across the different models under comparison. Tokenizer Models Ja?En BLEU SentencePiece 14.0 Moses and fugashi 9.9 Tokenizer Models En?Ja BLEU SentencePiece 16.0 Moses and fugashi 9.9 Nonetheless, this experiment's result led us to adopt SentencePiece as our preferred method for segmentation in other experiments. 

 Normalizing by Orthographic Conversion We obtained the BLEU scores in Table  4  for our models. It can be seen from the results that training with normalized data by orthographic conversion does not improve the models over the baseline. The models trained on normalized data also have similar performances. The result of this experiment suggests that normalizing by orthographic conversion might have removed too many contextual cues for the model to perform well. Possible work for future experiments include investigating whether normalizing katakana in mixed-script text into hiragana could have a positive impact, because doing so would remove variability but would not introduce ambiguity to the extent it might have done when the content words in kanji were also normalized. Another direction for future research involves looking at training NMT models using sub-character units such as radicals or strokes, as was done in  Zhang and Komachi (2018) . 

 Politeness and Formality Tagger BLEU and chrF scores with a 95% confidence interval from a baseline model and a tagger model as seen in Table  5  shows that using a formality and politeness aware model improves the model's performance. The result of this experiment is very encouraging to us as the score increase is notable. It also suggests that the proposed classification of predicate endings works well for the news training data available. The training data used for this experiment contains 12.7M sentence pairs. Developing a politeness and formality aware model applicable to a wider selection of genres in Japanese remains future work, where careful consideration of different writing styles and additional classification of stylistic markers are needed. 

 Back-Translation Using back-translated data improved the results (reported with a 95% confidence interval), although the gain in the En?Ja direction was modest, as shown in table  6 . The results reinforce previous findings that back-translation generally improves translation quality, and for languages with low resources, it can be especially useful. Although the Ja-En pair is not considered lowresourced, the parallel data for news-specific corpus was very scarce, so using the monolingual newscrawl and newscorpus was beneficial to the model learning. 

 Model Ensembling and N-Best Reranking During the decoding phase, we ensembled the highest performing checkpoints and obtained 10 best translations from those checkpoints. We found that for both directions, this method resulted in improved translations, as demonstrated in table 7. This evaluation result was done on the WMT 2021 test set and was obtained during the submission period using the submitted models. 

 Conclusion We produced several models to tackle the task of translating Japanese to English and English to Japanese. Namely, we have used BPE, employed a politeness and formality tagger, and during decoding, utilized model ensembling and n-best reranking. Normalizing by orthographic conversion did not produce improvement compared to the baseline, but the other techniques have all proven to be effective and thus have been employed in our final submissions. We also found that for both En?Ja and Ja?En, adding back-translated data improved the results. This may be explained by the fact that there is very little parallel data in the news domain, and adding synthetic data from alternative in-domain sources helped tune the model. While improvement in the BLEU score is modest for En?Ja, we expect the results to improve further if we increase the amount of back-translated data. We also showed that employing a tagger to introduce more contextual cues related to politeness and formality to our translation system is an effective technique. Differences in formality and politeness levels present are issues often encountered when using training data in languages with rich honorifics. Thus the technique employed in this paper could be extended to other languages such as Korean. Table 1 : 1 Size of parallel corpora before filtering Corpus Sentences (M) JParacrawl 2.0 10.12 News Commentary v16 0.0019 Wiki Titles v3 0.757 WikiMatrix 3.6448 Subtitle Corpus 2.8013 KFTT 0.4438 Ted Talks 0.4462 Total 18.215 
